# Steering Committee 2017-07-03

## Post-hoc Summary
Topics of discussion include Carpentry Con, relationship with Library Carpantry, finances, documentation and communication strategies, partnerships, lesson maintenance, and curriculum oversight.

We approved 4 motions regarding the structure and leadership of the mergered Carpentries organization. The motions are: 

1. **Motion 1:** The Board of Directors for the combined organization will be composed of 9 members, each serving a two year term without limits on the number of terms. Five members will be appointed through a process of nomination to the board followed by voting by board members. The other four members will be elected by the membership of the organization. ***Background:*** We anticipate that role of Board is governance / steering rather than execution / operations. Appointed members ensure that the Board has the expertise desired for leading an organization with the legal and financial responsibilities of the combined organization, while elected members continue on the democratic traditions of SWC and allow interested community members to be part of the leadership.
2. **Motion 2:** The combined organization will have an Executive Director who reports to the Board of Directors. Initially, this position will be offered to Dr. Tracy Teal.  **Background:**  The ED is the link between the Board and the operations of the organization. The ED will have autonomy to make decisions about running the organization, given strategic direction from the Board. 
3. **Motion 3:** The combined organization will have a Director of Business Development who reports to the Executive Director. Initially, this position will be offered to Jonah Duckles. **Background:** Business development is critical to the long-term sustainability of the organization. In the merger of two organizations, each with an ED, this clarifies roles and reporting.
4. **Motion 4:** Existing subcommittees and task forces will have a point of contact from among the staff, rather than reporting directly to the Board of Directors. **Background:** The subcommittees perform important work of the organization. They currently report directly to the SWC board, which is inconsistent with a Board responsible for governance, not operations. The subcommittee’s should instead work directly with staff, overseen by the ED.

## Connection details
- Time (15:00 EST/ 14:00 CST/ 19:00 UTC) 
- Link to connect: https://carpentries.zoom.us/j/996139708 
- Link to rules for steering committee meetings: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/governance.md
- Link to Code of Conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct/ 
## Attendance:
### Steering Committee Members Attending
- Mateusz Kuzak
- Rayna Harris (will be 12 min late)
- Kate Hertweck
- Sue McClatchy
- Christina Koch


### Steering Committee Members Not attending:
- Karin Lagesen, proxy given to Kate

### Carpentry Staff Attending
- Jonah Duckles

## Updates from board members
### Chair’s Updates (Kate Hertweck)
#### Updates

Summary of in-person merger discussion: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/06/merger.html 

#### Minutes

Lesson maintainers + infrastructure operating together
Kate coordinating w/ Raniere for summer lesson release

In the blog post, a timeline of when things will happen
Rest of that topic can be deferred until later in the agenda (motions)


### Vice-chair updates (Christina Koch)


#### Minutes

Mentoring committee still looking for discussion hosts
Sending out discussion session emails has transitioned from Mateusz to Jamie; will need to work with Maneesha + Emily (virtual assistant) to help automate the interaction with AMY

Instructor trainers: Scheduling for fall, reorganizing curriculum, lesson release in August, open call for new trainers


### Treasurer updates (Sue McClatchy)  
#### Updates

May finance report:
https://github.com/smcclatchy/board_pvt/blob/smcclatchy-05-may/finances/reports/2017/05-may/monthly-report.md

#### Minutes

Still trying to sort out income split between Software/Data Carpentry for joint memberships; ongoing conversations with Maneesha + Numfocus to make that more clear
Reminder from May meeting: initiated restricted operating reserve, have not needed to draw on those funds, will next add funds at end of the quarter
$95,053: total cost for in person meeting


### Secretary updates (Rayna Harris)
#### Updates
Wrote a blog post about writing blog posts every month! https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/06/secretaryupdate.html
Also, I’ve started adding short summaries to the meeting document before posting the minutes (great suggestion Christina)

### Additional board members updates (Karin Lagesen)
#### Updates

none


### Additional board members updates (Mateusz Kuzak)
#### Updates

**Carpentry Con Task Force (Mateusz):**
- successful meeting with NumFocus
- moving forward with contacting potential sites (Rome, Heidelberg, Amsterdam (Utrecht), San Sebastian)
- target to finalise bid and schedule (ideas for keynotes, topics for breakout sessions) before next meeting, which will happen before community call
- migrating to carpentries/carpentrycon repository
- agreed on 2+1 days agenda with third optional community-led day
- Library Carpentry liaison ?
- Carpentry Instructor Agreement https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v8XvartgvdHpmmEWkMOL7ekpg2xh9xXufT4OB-1s3oI/edit?usp=sharing

#### Minutes
- A few sites have very nice facilities, so they are working on contacting them to see if the sites are appropriate
- San Sebastian has expressed an interest
- Will use the August community call for suggestions for program content and community driven session.

#### Action items
- Rayna will add new section to minutes for updates from a Library Carpentry liaison, with Mateuz as the liaison

## Updates from the Executive Director (Jonah Duckles)

#### Updates

- New Memberships
    - SSI Finalized in-kind + $10,000
    - Intersect Australia $7,500
    - Curtin University in Western Australia has led a consortium of Perth universities in a Gold Membership $15,000
    - Manchester University has signed a 3-year agreement, the first 6-months will be in-kind with them working on a social sciences lesson (in-kind for 18 months, then invoiced at $10,000/year for two years)
    - Weill Cornell College of Medicine has joined at Silver for two-years (paying upfront) $13,000 (upfront)
    - NYU has joined at Gold $15,000
    - QCIF has joined at Platinum $7,500
    - Imperial College London has joined at Gold $15,000
    - Oxford (renewal) Birmingham and Edinburgh will join at Silver with a single invoice to Edinburgh for $22,500
    - Total of $135,000 in new revenue
- Renewals
    - JAX Lab has renewed at Gold $15,000
    - University of Michigan has renewed for 3 years $15,000
    - University of Arizona Renewal at Platinum is moving forward $10,000
    - University of Washington $10,000
UCSD $7,500
- Leads for new memberships
    - University of Wyoming $7,500
    - University of Otago in NZ Silver (New Zealand) ~$7,500/year
    - University of Auckland (New Zealand) $7,500
    - CSRIO Australia strong lead (Canberra, Australia) $7,500
    - UTS Sydney strong lead (Sydney, Australia) $15,000
    - U Sydney strong lead (Sydney, Australia) $15,000
    - UNSW strong lead (Sydney, Australia) $15,000
    - Monash University (Melbourne, Australia) strong lead $15,000
    - Boise State University (Idaho) 
    - NE Liberal arts colleges (Dartmouth and Tufts) $7,500
    - NCSU/Duke and other NC uni’s together.
- Interesting conversations
    - Sloan connected us with Andrew Raseij at Civic Hall (https://civichall.org/) about their interest in instructor training for workshops teaching skills to volunteers and staff at non-profits in NYC. Lots of interesting funding leads to follow from this introduction.
    - Talked with Steph Wright at Mozilla Science lab about more collaborations going forward. MozLab will be pivoting to a grant/funding model soon, and there look to be opportunities for us to get some funding streams if we apply for their calls.
    - Program/Funding brewing with Microsoft Research to support Cloud lessons and scholarships for instructors who help with those lessons to travel to teach in Africa, Brazil, Mexico and other low/middle income places.
- Events
    - Gave a talk at Abacus Bio in Dunedin, NZ
    - Giving short talk at ResBaz Sydney tomorrow about community and getting involved in ResBaz/Carpentries communities at the 4 participating unis
    - Will give a dept seminar at University of Otago July 25th
- Staff updates
    - In person staff meeting will take place the second week of September 12-13
    - Onboarding Belinda as Community Lead

#### Minutes
- Many new memberships that a recently signed or nearly signed. 
- Only 1 university has not renewed, but Tracy will follow up. Maybe finding a new point of contact. 
- RezBas has given new contacts and new universities are keen to train more cohorts of instructors
- Sue helped kickstart a new membership
- Pursuing some joint university memberships for training cohorts. There are some hubs that are natural entry points for a membership involving multiple organizations that could grow in the future to additional university-specific  memberships
- Potential collaborations with Mozilla now that they are transitioning to a new funding model
- Staff meeting in september will have all hands on deck, including new hires
- Maneesha, Belinda, and Jonah are all “owners” of the github repo
- New strategy for the website is to start building the blog on the carpentries website. Many things will be migrated there, and the carpentry specific websites will be paired down to things related to curricula. 
- Social media roles have been handed over from Jonah to Belinda


## Formal motions 

### Motion 1: The Board of Directors for the combined organization will be composed of 9 members, each serving a two year term without limits on the number of terms. Five members will be appointed through a process of nomination to the board followed by voting by board members. The other four members will be elected by the membership of the organization. 

**Background:** We anticipate that role of Board is governance / steering rather than execution / operations.  Appointed members ensure that the Board has the expertise desired for leading an organization with the legal and financial responsibilities of the combined organization, while elected members continue on the democratic traditions of SWC and allow interested community members to be part of the leadership. 

- **Presented by:** Kate/Rayna
- **Passed? Yes/No: **  Passes unanimously


#### Minutes
- General summary and a timeline of action items. https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/06/merger.html 
- These four motions were drafted during and immediately following the in person merger meeting. The discussions revolved around the separation of roles between the Carpentries umbrella organization and the lesson-specific carpentries. 
- Expect an email from Karen Cranston to schedule a joint DC/SWC meeting to enumerate the bylaws. The goal is to start with the SWC bylaws and fill in the gaps regarding holes that we have noticed exist in the bylaws. 
- The motions are identical to those presented to the DC board.
- The process for election and appointment will be articulated in the bylaws.
- To clarify, all motions regarding the merger are being presented to both the SC and SWC boards in the process of handing over governing authority. 

### Motion 2: The combined organization will have an Executive Director who reports to the Board of Directors. Initially, this position will be offered to Dr. Tracy Teal. 

**Background:**  The ED is the link between the Board and the operations of the organization. The ED will have autonomy to make decisions about running the organization, given strategic direction from the Board. 

- **Presented by:** Kate/Rayna
- **Passed? Yes/No:** passes unanimously 

#### Minutes
- A very general sense of the staff and their roles. Lots of consideration was taken here to evaluate existing roles and responsibilities and to identify gaps in the organizational structure. 
- This role will involve assessment of staff and the creation of new positions and general creation of the organizational chart

### Motion 3:  The combined organization will have a Director of Business Development who reports to the Executive Director. Initially, this position will be offered to Jonah Duckles.    

**Background:** Business development is critical to the long-term sustainability of the organization. In the merger of two organizations, each with an ED, this clarifies roles and reporting.

- **Presented by:** Kate/Rayna
- **Passed? Yes/No:**   passes unanimously 

#### Minutes
A very general sense of the staff and their roles. Lots of consideration was taken here to evaluate existing roles and responsibilities and to identify gaps in the organizational structure. 
### Motion 4: Existing subcommittees and task forces will have a point of contact from among the staff, rather than reporting directly to the Board of Directors.  

Background:  The subcommittees perform important work of the organization. They currently report directly to the SWC board, which is inconsistent with a Board responsible for governance, not operations. The subcommittee’s should instead work directly with staff, overseen by the ED.

- **Presented by:** Kate/Rayna
- **Passed? Yes/No:** passes unanimously 

#### Minutes
- We believe this is a scalable model and provides some security for the subcommittees such that they have a point of contact within the staff for when they need assistance
- Subcommittees still have delegated authority and access to the board, but they now have a point of contact
- The mentoring committee has found that having a staff committee point of contact will be very beneficial and makes a lot of sense. 
- Also, this helps clarify the role of the board in being involved with governance but not with daily execution of activities. Removing the direct reporting of the subcommittees from the board and giving it to the staff is more in line with our organizational structure. 
- In the future, subcommittee repos will be transitioned out of the board repo and into a carpentries repo
## Discussion items 
### Topic 1: Lesson maintenance and curriculum oversight
- **Summary:** We need to begin thinking about better ways to maintain, develop, and unite our lessons following the merger. How do we envision this process to work, and what role do we see SWC (as opposed to the Carpentries umbrella) playing in the process?
- **Presented by:** Christina (Kate)
- **Action items**
    - Rayna will start a discussion with Erin about the most effective way to introduce people to the process of lesson contribution. 
    - Christina will stay in touch with Erin regarding changes that will be useful to convey to everyone. 

#### Minutes
- Where will Software Carpentry go after the merger?
- Partially based on our discussion at the in person meeting about the retirement of lessons. Who decides this? Should be a group of people that are checking in with maintainers about the status older and newer lessons. 
- **Goal** - identify what should be decided on behalf of the community that aren’t lesson specific. List the responsibilities and decisions. May or may not be a formal committee.
- It will be important to identify what we want to maintain control over as we transition some things (like templates) to the carpentries
- Will need to articulate the process for getting feedback and acting on feedback.
- We also need to think about how we train and groom people to be contributors. And, we need to think about how we manage the editorial process.  How does the “editorial board” decide where lessons live. Wikimedia is a decent (but not perfect) model that allows and encourages contributions with editors that curate and refine the contributions. 
- Some of the Wikipedia Governance docs: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Governance
- **Feedback from the community:** lessons from the Data Carpentry Genomics lesson. How do we incorporate feedback from workshops? There are lots of thoughts but not always a lot of changes. 
- Anything that happens at the Carpentries level will be related to policy, which includes a lot of infrastructure. Editorial decisions could still be at the infrastructure level . 
- Can we separate lesson development from instructor training? Teaching a lesson and developing a lesson are two different skills. The goal of the checkout process is that you understand the mechanisms and getting people of the hump to contribute. Let’s think about this as a vocation that we can help people develop this skill. The current model seems to be working but there could be room for improvement. 
- The lesson contribution part is a burden on maintainers, so an alternative solution could be identified. 

## Adjourn
