# Steering Committee 2017-04-03
- Time (15:00 EST/ 14:00 CST/ 19:00 UTC) 
- Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/850076369

## Attendance:

### Steering Committee Members Attending
- Mateusz Kuzak
- Christina Koch
- Belinda Weaver
- Kate Hertweck 
- Sue McClatchy
- Karin Lagesen
- Rayna Harris

### Steering Committee Members Not attending:
- NA

### Carpentry Staff Attending
- Jonah Duckles

## Agenda
1. Chair’s welcome & agenda overview
1. Updates from board members
1. Updates from SWC staff members 
1. Formal Motions
1. Discussion item
1. Open call for questions

## Updates from board members
### Chair’s Updates (Kate Hertweck)
#### Updates
- Merger discussions
- Community lead hiring
- Other items as entered for discussion below
- Advisory Council relations
#### Minutes
- Had 1 merger meeting with Karen Cranston and Hilmar Lapp. Need to touch base with the advisory council regarding this merger.  Neil Chue Hong is planning to call an AC meeting soon.
#### Action items
NA

### Vice-chair updates (Christina Koch)
#### Updates
- Mentoring committee update (see below)
- Still coordinating discussions re: instructor training policy (discussion item later in the meeting)
- With Kate, am organizing the May in-person meeting agenda.  Expect an email later this week asking for your input.  
#### Minutes
NA
#### Action items
- Jonah will send a draft report from the AC members later today.

### Treasurer updates (Sue McClatchy)  
#### Updates
- Populating & re-organizing board_pvt/finances directory
  - 2017 invoices: https://github.com/smcclatchy/board_pvt/tree/master/finances/invoices/2017
  - 2017 reports: https://github.com/smcclatchy/board_pvt/tree/master/finances/reports/2017
  - Q: I can merge these changes but probably shouldn’t. Process?
- Balances
  - Jan:	see 2017 reports repo above
  - Feb 28: $ 116,780.95 
  - Mar 15: $ 121,460.45  
  - Q: Is there a board-designated operating reserve (rainy day fund)?
  - Recommendation: 25% or 3 months of the annual expense budget
- Profit & loss reports
  - Mar 15 Overview https://github.com/smcclatchy/board_pvt/blob/master/finances/reports/2017/03-mar/SWC_ProfitandLoss_Overview_03.15.17.xlsx
  - Mar 15 Detail https://github.com/smcclatchy/board_pvt/blob/master/finances/reports/2017/03-mar/SWC_ProfitandLoss_Detail_03.15.17.xlsx
- Outstanding and paid invoices as of Feb 28 https://github.com/smcclatchy/board_pvt/blob/master/finances/reports/2017/02-feb/Outstanding%20Invoices_Software%20Carpentry_Feb%202017.xlsx
  - Q: Process for chasing down unpaid invoices?
- Resources for Nonprofit Financial Management at The Wallace Foundation www.strongnonprofits.org
  - Program-based budget builder as a way to envision unified Carpentries finances http://www.wallacefoundation.org/knowledge-center/resources-for-financial-management/Pages/Program-Based-Budget-Template.aspx
#### Minutes
- Sue has been reorganizing the private board repo. Who should approve these pull request? Currently there is no procedure in place for this. Moving forward, there should be a system for having this reviewed by 2 people. 
- Moving forward, Karin & Kate will review the pull requests and Mateusz will merge the pull requests. These designations for review can be made in GitHub.
- Sure updates include balances from the 2017 reports that include the profits and losses. These are in board_pvt/finances/reports
 - Question? Is there a rainy day fund or reserve that the board can access and use? Should be about 3 months worth of the budget. Answer: There is no such reserve. Additional comment: much of the literature suggests that non-profit organizations like ours should have a rainy day fund. 
 - Suggestion: Organize an auxiliary meeting regarding finances. Solution: Sue and Karin will discuss over email the rainy day fund in more details. 
- Comment - one thing the rainy day fund could be used for is travel for board members to meet in person when our board responsibilities require we meet in person
 - Jonah, Maneesha, and the virtual assistant are now handling the expenses and reports. Not unusual at all for institutions are waiting 120 days to pay. Question? How much time is spent chasing invoices? Answer: A negligible amount of time. 
 - The links above have great templates for the unified organizations regarding budgets and time management, which could be useful for the merger discussion. This has been in use already for SWC and it will be shared as part of the merger discussions
#### Action items
- Jonah will provide the members of the board Excel-based budget workbook. Kate and Rayna will use these in discussions for a merger.

### Secretary updates (Rayna Harris)
#### Updates
- Minutes from the last meeting have been archived here: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2017-03-08.md
- I created two discussion items related to the agenda and minutes 
- I will add updates to the next agenda following each meeting.
#### Minutes
Future action items will be added to future meetings.
#### Action items
NA

### Additional board members updates (Belinda Weaver)
#### Updates 
- There is a current discussion in Library Carpentry about workshop websites. I use the SWC/DC template for Library Carpentry workshops I teach and I get them into AMY. That is my preferred way forward so they are recorded and tracked. (Maneesha has also helped get others in.) Do people agree that is the best way to go? If so, the LC gang would like to create a template that would have the LC logo, and also tweaks for the software installation and schedule for our workshops as both are quite different - see my MIT one https://weaverbel.github.io/2017-05-11-lc-boston/ Should this be a fork? Or an alternative workshop template? I would like to take a decision back to the group as workshops are abounding and I would like them counted. We would then create retrospective sites if need be so we could import them into AMY.
- Library Carpentry news more generally:
  - Lots of activity to report. I am running instructor training for librarians with Tim Dennis from UCSD in Portland 4-5 May (after csv,conf). I am teaching Library Carpentry at MIT on 15 May. We are running a Library Carpentry project again http://pad.software-carpentry.org/lc2017 at the Mozilla Science Lab global sprint 1-2 June - 5 sites up already and people are also signing on to work remotely. More here: https://github.com/LibraryCarpentry/librarycarpentry.github.io/issues/23 We plan to work on SQL, Python, and web scraping lessons, rebuild our main page librarycarpentry.github.io, and to work out a way to record and track workshops better, and possibly do some tweaks to make LC work for archivists. There is also interest in ‘Curation Carpentry’ from Nancy McGovern, a librarian/repository person at MIT. We are currently seeking feedback on that from archivists: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdc9RHNmgffnt9UtLfgIhS_MGUzh0wh-HQNX24wBz5c4mcf1g/viewform
  - There has just been a successful LC workshop run at the University of Sheffield, with another booked for May this year in Taunton in the UK (both funded by our British Library Labs prize win for innovation last year). So far, I think there have been about 15 Library Carpentry workshops since last year’s global sprint kicked this movement off. The chat room is very active https://gitter.im/weaverbel/LibraryCarpentry as are issues raised on GitHub (always lots of discussions) and we keep finding new people hearing about it and getting involved. So far, Australia, Canada, the US, the Netherlands, the UK and South Africa are the main places for activity with NZ about to get on the bandwagon. There is a Twitter account https://twitter.com/LibCarpentry.
  - In Australia/NZ - I have been invited to do an 8-city roadshow for the National and State Libraries of Australasia during July-August. The Council of NZ University Libraries have just approached me this week about extending the NZ leg of that trip to teach workshops to their members as well. I have also been invited by the Australian Society of Archivists to teach a Library Carpentry workshop as a tie-in to their annual conference in September. I was also recently approached by Macquarie University in Sydney about taking Library Carpentry there, and about running a workshop at VALA Tech Camp (for the GLAM sector) in July. I have had to turn down more than ten other invitations because my employer was not willing to release me to teach them. I am still in discussions with the Australian Library + Information Association (librarian professional body) about further training. 
  - Elsewhere - lots of growing interest and requests for workshops from all over. Upcoming one in South Africa in May, plans for one in Ottawa a bit later on, probably a lot will happen in the US after Portland training and the sprint in June. Definitely a burgeoning activity that takes up a lot of my time!
#### Minutes
- How do we use the workshop template for Library Carpentry?
- Comment: Using the same template would be great. There is a lesson template that includes the library carpentry logo. There is a workshop template already. 
- In the lesson example, there is already the ability to toggle this for lesson but not for workshop templates. Given that this is already available for lessons, let’s go ahead and make this an option for workshops. 
- We have not yet reconciled all the Carpentries yet, but this is an easy item that can be fixed with a pull request. 
- Note: https://github.com/data-lessons/librarycarpentry/issues/7 this is a thread about  community differences within and across the communities. 
- Overall lots of enthusiasm and excitement in the LC community!
#### Action items
- Belinda: Contact Raniere to add that functionality for LC logo on workshops.  
- Christina: Follow up with Erin to clarify instructor checkout procedure for Library Carpentry Instructors

### Additional board members updates (Karin Lagesen)
#### Updates
NA
#### Minutes
NA
#### Action items
NA

### Additional board members updates (Mateusz Kuzak)
#### Updates
- Successful Genomics workshop in Amsterdam (first in Europe). Virtual Machine based on AMI working on Dutch National Research Cloud (SURFsara HPC cloud). People interested in improving  genomics lesson. Two more workshops planned.
- In talks with National Library to pick up Library Carpentry activities in the Netherlands. They are already advanced in planning DH clinics and are interested in becoming a partner and training instructors.
- The Netherlands joining LC global sprint. Hopefully National library will host the event.
- Invitation to PyCon / PyData PL in August to give a keynote about Carpentries in general. I would like to organise instructor training or workshop there.
#### Minutes
NA
#### Action items
NA

### Subcommittee Liaison Updates
**Carpentry Con Task Force: Matuesz and Rayna currently**
- Minutes from from 2nd to last meeting posted here: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/TaskForces/2017-CarpentryCon/minutes/2017-03-06.md
notes from the meeting March 3 http://pad.software-carpentry.org/2017carpentrycontaskforce
- Discussed roles/responsibilities and new 2018 name at last meeting
**Mentoring Subcommittee (Christina): **  
- March meeting last week
- New leaders! Christina is working with them to transition roles
- Interest in one-page onboarding information (applies to other groups)
**Lesson maintainers Subcommittee (Kate):**
NA
**Lesson infrastructure Subcommittee (Kate):**
NA
**Policy Subcommittee (Karin):**
- No update due to no violations happening
**Instructor Trainer Subcommittee (Christina):**
- New policy for scheduling trainings around trainer vs host schedules
- One badging system -- no longer have to checkout separately for both DC + SWC
#### Minutes
- Carpentry Con (Mateusz) Very useful discussion at CarpentryCon meeting today regarding timeline and community input. Working on creating a transparent way to the community to contribute their ideas and time. 
- General - How do we create directories of google docs that live under the carpentries brand 
#### Action items
- Jonah will create a google drive folder for subgroups. Rayna will articulate what is needed for Carpentry Con. Christina? Can articulate what is needed for the Trainer’s are. 
- Mateusz: Recommend that a new chair needs to be appointed for the Carpentry Con subcommittee.

## Updates from SWC Staff Members

### Update from the Executive Director (Jonah Duckles)
#### Updates
- Statistics and Metacognition workshop at ELIXIR,  Dr. Tractenberg provided a fantastic model for developing Mastery Rubrics to organize how learning can happen in technical disciplines. She’s worked with a variety of communities to develop MRs appropriate for professional development. She’s helped to develop MRs for clinical research; ethical reasoning; evidence-based medicine; nursing and statistical literacy. I plan to put a draft grant proposal together to explore funding a mastery rubric for computational/data skills in research.
- Interest from Luxembourg node of ELIXIR in running more trainings locally and becoming a member
- ELIXIR agreement is stalled because of a departure of a PI from Edinburgh university. So the money will have to now come from Cambridge and we’ll have to start the administrative process over again.
- Check out the progress of lesson development at http://coderefinery.org/lessons I’ve had conversations about turning some of these lessons into some more advanced carpentries workshops in the future. Titus Brown, Lex Nederbragt, Radovan Bast and myself put in a grant to try and get more funding for this. We’ll probably try again with the grant for the next round of the Norway/USA funding collaboration we applied to.
- Met with the leads from UCL, Sheffield and Leeds while at SSI’s collab 2017. They’re all seeing huge growth in demand for SWC workshops. Often the workshops sell out in hours after being announced. I’ve talked with folks from Southampton and around Cambridge U to see if we can bring them on as members as well.
- Tenji Takeda of Microsoft would like to help us to run workshops around the world by sponsoring instructors to work on lesson development for a Cloud skills lesson, then give them about $3k to travel to teach. We’re thinking of trying to use the resources toward organizing some workshops in Africa in the summer 2017. He’s thinking this year he might be able to get $18-20k for the pilot and we’ll try to put more in for next year. This could be a great partnership to spread Carpentries workshops to new places!
#### Minutes
- 1st big things: 1st bullet point will be turned into a foundation grant proposal for a master’s rubric for progression in the community
- 2nd big thing: approached by Microsoft for teaching cloud skills. Goal: adapt existing teaching materials to a more SWC-like format (Azure: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/). Would be good to loop Microsoft into funding Carpentry Con. This will also support building communities in underrepresented regions where we are beginning to host workshops. This is tangentially related to the HPC Carpentry that is being developed but does not include batch schedulers and such. 
- Microsoft training material - Http://aka.ms/a4rgithub
- Other good cloud materials here: http://training.nectar.org.au/
#### Action items
- Mateusz- will add Microsoft & Amazon Web Services to the list of potential donors to contact for Carpentry Con. 

### Update from the Director of Instructor Training (Erin Becker)
#### Updates
NA
#### Minutes
- Would like to strongly advise that the instructor trainer provide a short paragraph update. However, that expectation was never made clear. 
- Ask Erin to provide a brief summary of what trainings have been offered, what are upcomming, what changes have been made, what is the budget?
- Is this separate from what Christina is providing as an update?
#### Action items
- Christina and Karin will email to determine what we ask of Erin. Then, Erin will discusses with Christina what is appropriate.
- Christina: Will Invite  Erin to the next meeting to specifically discuss pro bono trainings. 

### Update from the Program Coordinator (Maneesha Sane)
#### Updates
NA
#### Minutes
NA
#### Action items
NA

## Motions presented for email vote since last meeting 
### Motion 1: The Steering Committee chair will write a letter of support to Raniere Silva's proposal to NumFocus to promote Software Carpentry in Brazil, which will include pro bono instructor training if the proposal is accepted.
- **Summary:** NumFOCUS announced a seed grant for their sponsored and affiliated projects. Raniere drafted a proposal to increase SWC's presence in Brazil (https://github.com/rgaiacs/numfocus-2017-grant/releases/download/v0.2.0/proposal.pdf). Given the deadline for the proposal is April 3, it would be great for us to finish the vote this week so I can get the letter written for the application package. I did notice (in the proposal repo: https://github.com/rgaiacs/numfocus-2017-grant/) that there is a letter of support  from a local university to provide local flights and lodging, so my previous concern is being addressed. 
- **Presented by:** Kate
- **Passed: Yes or No:** The motion passed.
- **Action items:**
#### Minutes
-  We should consider figuring out an approximate number of instructors that we will train for things like this. Assuming this will be a "normal sized" cohort of approximately 20, but we should have an internal guideline on that, and also on the approx total of pro bono instructors we should train each year. → Discussion item later in the meeting to start addressing this

## Formal motions 
### Motion 1: Formally transition the 2017 Carpentry Con Task Force to the 2018 Carpentry Con Task Force
- **Summary:** The 2017 Carpentry Con Task force was proposed by Alix Keener and Greg Wilson. The original plan was to host the first Carpentry Con in Michigan. However, this proposal will not come to fruition. The task force members are now planning to host a spring 2018 Carpentry Con in Europe. I think we should have a new announcement and a new Task Force to accompany this change in year and location. Details regarding the 2017 Task Force can be found in this repo: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/master/TaskForces/2017-CarpentryCon 
- **Presented by:** Rayna
- **Passed: Yes or No:** The motion passed.
- **Action items** NA
#### Minutes
NA

## Discussion items 
### Topic 1: Reformatting of the agenda and minutes
- **Summary:** With this document, I’m suggesting a reformatting of the agenda to have set areas for updates from the action items from previous meetings. I also suggest a slight reordering of updates. I’m open to suggestions for how to move forward with this template. 
- **Presented by:** Rayna
- **Action items** Rayna will add a link to the rules for easy of use
#### Minutes
- We will try this format for a few months
- Suggestion: have a link to the rules at the end

### Topic 2: Posting of minutes
- **Summary:** Currently, the minutes are posted in two private places (the google drive and on github in board/pvt) and one public place (github in board). I would like to eliminate the reposting of minutes in the private repo. We need to have a discussion about what is and is not made public. Maybe it is worth having a brief discussion at the end of each meeting to specific this. One option is to not post anything written under the “minutes” subheading and to only post the summary, presented by, results, and action items.
- **Presented by:** Rayna
- **Action items** Rayna will post minutes in pvt repo and tag everyone to review the minutes. 
#### Minutes
- We have been practices approval by not voting. 
- One reason for having board-pvt first is because its helps decide if something should be keep from the public. 
- Minutes in the Google doc are sometimes rough. 
- Suggestions: In the google doc we can review and suggest that things be marked as private rather than using the github. Suggestion tabled. 
- Note: As per our [bylaws](https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2014/12/scf-governance.html) we are obliged to publish meetings within a week of the meeting. We normal practice is to have trailing minutes a month delayed.

### Topic 3: Decisions in instructor training
- **Summary:** In our last meeting, Karin raised the question of “who decides what” re: various aspects of instructor training.  Christina was tasked with some initial exploration which is currently summarized in this document.  Main questions to discuss: 
- Is there anything missing? 
	- Identify any areas where the SC needs to make a decision now or in the future
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WZRgmU0gl8eT7Yi0asnUvOh9snUvjjYZbJYfd8Hrdj0/edit#
- **Presented by:** Christina
- **Action items** Kate: will ask the DC board if they would like to contribute to the discussion on instructor training policies
#### Minutes
- Will layout what needs to be decided and who is making the discussions. 
- Today, we are not discussing open instructor training. This will happen at the next meeting. 
- The document lists the things that need to be decided and who should be in charge of deciding them (e.g. leadership, staff, trainers, community).
- Especially regarding staff level decisions, when should these things be voted upon? 
- How to select new trainers? What is in the curriculum? Who trains the trainers? Who decides on the procedures?
- The single badge came from a discussion that most of the trainers agreed that they were okay with having a trainee only do one demo session to be certified as both a SWC and a DC instructor. This was looped into a change in the badging proceed that gave a single badges for all instructors. This was put into effect without approval by the SWC steering committee. This approval came from trying to lower the barriers for entry into our community. 
- Since we are at the information collection stage, please add comments to the working document above. 
- There is also a communication plan at the bottom of the document for how there is communication between the trainers, the board, and the staff. 
- If you have thoughts about how to process should work for selecting new instructors, then add your comments to the working doc. 

### Topic 4: Assessing subcommittees TABLE
- **Summary:** Do we have SC liaisons for all subcommittees? How would we like to maintain communications with them?
- **Presented by:** Kate
- **Action items** Item moved to May agenda
#### Minutes
NA

### Topic 5: Managing GitHub organizational resources TABLE
- **Summary:** We don’t have anyone officially designated to monitor board and board_pvt, and we don’t have an established review process for issues and PRs. Additionally, Jonah and Greg are the only two owners of the GitHub organization; should we add someone else?
- **Presented by:** Kate
- **Action items** Item moved to May agenda
#### Minutes
NA

### Topic 6: SWC Windows installer (and use of text editors in general)
- **Summary:** There has been a great deal of discussion on the listserv and GitHub about how to manage an increasingly out of date Windows Installed (which provides access to nano, as well as other tools used by lessons taught less often). A number of suggestions have been offered to resolve this, including updating the installer, using a different text editor overall (Atom), developing a new custom install of Cygwin, etc. There is currently no official group or maintainer assigned to handling issues like this, and it’s a strategic decision (what software we utilize/support), so I’d like the SC to review the options and determine a course of action. Additional background here
- **Presented by:**  Kate 
- **Action items** Kate will write a blog post about the current fixes are and how people teaching upcoming workshops should proceed. Coordinate fixes with Rainere. 
- **Action items** Kate will discuss with the bridge committee to have a community discussion the the tools for windows installs. 
#### Minutes
- Fire has been put out for now, with a fix Raniere created. We need to discuss how to remove forward.  The majority of our learners are using this. A large part of our community would like to explore further options. 
- Should we have an auxiliary meeting about this? Recommendation: have a community meeting about since the expertise is not in this room. 
- First, we need to decide as a group on how we take this on. 
= How do we test drive the proposed options?

### Topic 7: Self organised instructor training policy (overlaps with Topic 3) TABLE
- **Summary:** Is there a policy for self organised instructor trainings? Should they be allowed? If so, what should be the procedure for making a decision? What should be the criteria.
- **Presented by:** Mateusz
- **Action items** Item moved to May agenda
#### Minutes
NA

## Open call for questions
NA
## Adjourn
