# Steering Committee 2017-05-01
- Time (15:00 EST/ 14:00 CST/ 19:00 UTC) 
- Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/850076369
- Link to rules for steering committee meetings: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/governance.md and https://archive.org/details/Robertsrulesofor00robe_201303 
- Link to Code of Conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct/ 

## Attendance:
### Steering Committee Members Attending
- Belinda Weaver
- Karin Lagesen
- Sue McClatchy
- Mateusz Kuzak
- Kate Hertweck
- Christina Koch
- Rayna Harris

### Carpentry Staff Attending
- Maneesha Sane 
- Jonah Duckles

## Summary
In this meeting, we passed two formal motions. With the first motion, we agreed to continue discussing the reorganization of Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry which is considering creating a 'Carpentry umbrella organization' with multiple 'Lesson Carpentries' underneath it. The second motion approved a job reclassification for Maneesha. Topics of discussion were focused on instructor training, GitHub managments, lesson development, and planning for the in-person meeting. 

## Agenda
- Updates from board members
- Updates from SWC staff members 
- Motions Voted on by email since the last meeting
- Formal Motions
- Discussion items
- Open call for questions

## Updates from board members

### Chair’s Updates (Kate Hertweck)
#### Updates
- [x] Will ask the DC board if they would like to contribute to the discussion on instructor training policies
- [x] Will write a blog post about the current fixes are and how people teaching upcoming workshops should proceed. Coordinate fixes with Rainere. 
- [x] will discuss with the bridge committee to have a community discussion the the tools for windows installs
#### Minutes
- Action items working well
- Some discussions overlap so we may discuss in different order and simultaneously
- Had a successful windows installer community meeting (http://pad.software-carpentry.org/community-call-2017-04-20). Will have a maintainers meeting in a week or two. Having something that works is the priority. 


### Vice-chair updates (Christina Koch)
#### Updates
- [X] Christina: Follow up with Erin to clarify instructor checkout procedure for Library Carpentry Instructors
- [ ] Will email Jonah the details for creating an instructor trainers google drive directory 
- [X] Together with Karin, will email to determine what we ask of the instructor trainer with respect to regular updates for steering committee meetings
- [ ] Will invite Erin to the next meeting to specifically discuss pro bono trainings. 
#### Minutes
- Still working on the instructor training certification process and requirements for SWC/DC/LC
#### Action items
- [ ] Will delay the pro-bono training to the next meeting (either the in person or the June meeting)

### Treasurer updates (Sue McClatchy)  
#### Updates
- 1st quarter 2017 report: https://github.com/smcclatchy/board_pvt/blob/master/finances/reports/2017/Q1/quarterly-report.md
- Comparison of 1st quarter 2017 with preceding 4 quarters in 2016: https://github.com/smcclatchy/board_pvt/blob/master/finances/reports/2017/Q1/quarterly-comparison.pdf
#### Minutes
- Sue will prepare a proposal for creating an alert/threshold for when we are below the budget that would support 3 months worth of expenses. Want minimize quarters where we have significantly more expenses than income. This threshold is a way of signalling that we are conscious of our financial responsibility to our staff. 
- 2016 Q1 was a handoff in leadership, which is why income was lower than that any other quarter, and explains the low income/expense ratio. There are now tools and documents in place where any potential handoff to new personnel should not result in a decrease in income from partnerships.
- These reports will be shared with the previous secretary for peer review to confirm that everything's in order (aka, scripts working properly).
- New policy with make processes for reimbursement explicit
#### Action items
1). May I share these reports with former treasurer Bill Mills for review? Yes. 
2). Expect policy proposals for a board-designated reserve fund and for travel accounting and reimbursement at a future meeting.

### Secretary updates (Rayna Harris)
#### Updates
- [x] will add a link to the rules for easy of use
- [x] will post minutes in pvt repo and tag everyone to review the minutes. 
#### Action items
- [ ] Investigate the process for archiving old documents / information?
- [ ] Add section at bottom specifically for discussions that require someone to be excused


### Additional board members updates (Karin Lagesen)
None.

### Additional board members updates (Mateusz Kuzak)
#### Updates
- [ ] Recommend that a new chair needs to be appointed for the Carpentry Con subcommittee. - scheduled for next meeting, there were people missing in the meeting
- [ ] Will add Microsoft & Amazon Web Services to the list of potential donors to contact for Carpentry Con. 

### Additional board members updates (Belinda Weaver)
#### Updates
- [x] Contact Raniere to add that functionality for LC logo on workshops. https://github.com/swcarpentry/workshop-template/pull/393 


### Subcommittee Liaison Updates
- **Carpentry Con Task Force (Mateusz):**
- **Mentoring Subcommittee (Christina): **
- **Lesson maintainers Subcommittee (Kate):**
- **Lesson infrastructure Subcommittee (Kate):**
- **Policy Subcommittee (Karin):**
- **Instructor Trainer Subcommittee (Christina):**
#### Minutes
- **CarpentryCon:** postponed selecting a chair untill next meeting, have recruited more experienced organizers to the group, working on finances and will liaison with the secretary, working on the template to request bids to organize, working on draft program.
[Minutes from CarpentryCon Task Force meeting meeting in May](board/TaskForces/2018-CarpentryCon/minutes/2017-05-01.md)
- **Mentoring:** transitioned successfully to new leadership, trying to build up capacity by recruiting more members, there has been a suggestion to use monthly documents as a way to improve communication 
- **Lesson maintainers** - new default messages have been added to the documents when new pull request have been added
- **Lesson infrastructure Subcommittee**- have been consumed with windows installer
- **Policy** - minor change to wording, working on developing policy for changing CoC policies

## Updates from SWC Staff Members
### Update from the Executive Director (Jonah Duckles)
#### Updates
- [X] Will end a draft report from the AC members later today.
- [x] Will share the Excel template with Kate and Rayna that has been completed for SWC that would help with the discussions for the merger.
- [X] Will create a google drive folder for subgroups once Rayna and Christina send a follow up email detailing their subcommittees needs

- MBIE Catalyst Grant going in AU/NZ $NZD 500,000 to support two postdocs doing lesson development at QCIF and NeSI/Otago.
- Active memberships summary: https://github.com/carpentries/agreements/blob/master/agreements/summary.md
- 36 active agreements representing $324,000 joint annual membership revenue
- Commitments us to train 363 instructors
- Tracking $200,000 in possible new membership revenue with an additional $65,000 if ELIXIR ever closes. This correspon
- Community hire update
#### Minutes
- Current discussion amongst staff is how to position ourselves to meet our instructor training commitments (~560 instructors in training).
- The new community hire process is underway and should be finalized by May 10 
- New membership with ELIXIR would correspond to more than 200 new instructors 

### Update from the Director of Instructor Training (Erin Becker)
#### Updates
- Updates on training
  - From March 25th - April 25th, 4 new DC instructors were badged and 21 new Software Carpentry instructors. 
  - We ran three instructor training events (University of Puerto Rico, University of Washington, NIST/VA Tech)
  - And have four coming up in the next month (South Africa, Portland, Federal Reserve Board, University of Florida) 
  - The nine new instructor Trainers are wrapping up their training and will be starting to teach soon. A few have events scheduled for next month, others are teaching for the first time June-August.
  - The Trainers group will be discussing next steps for recruiting more Trainers at our next meeting.

- Updates on curriculum
  - Erin has joined Christina as a co-maintainer of the instructor training curriculum. They are meeting semi-regularly to take care of routine maintenance and discuss thoughts about changes to the curriculum structure and organization.  
  - A Google form was circulated to Trainers to get feedback on proposed changes to the curriculum. Christina and Erin have not yet met to discuss this feedback. 
  - In the past month, 24 PRs to curriculum have been merged, several of which were focused on clarifying policies for new instructors. 

- Updates on policies/procedures
  - The Trainers group voted to adopt a single, streamlined checkout procedure (i.e. to get rid of the need for two teaching demos and lesson contributions). New instructors still receive the certificate and badge for the Carpentry they checked out on, but are certified to teach both Data and Software Carpentry.
  - Previously Data Carpentry had accepted contributions for Library Carpentry lessons as sufficient to check out for Data Carpentry. However, now that Data and Software Carpentry have a clear policy about badging across the Carpentries, only contributions and demonstrations for DC and SWC materials will be accepted. Single-case exceptions may be granted. This will be communicated with Trainers. 
  - Instructor training events are no longer being scheduled one-by-one. A calendar for three months has been put together with Trainer availability (June, July, August) and this calendar will be offered to partners for training events. 
#### Minutes
The Trainers group meets twice monthly. Minutes and notes from the past two meetings are linked below. Our next meeting is Thursday 4/27.
https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/subcommittees/trainers/minutes/2017-03-23-business.md
https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/subcommittees/trainers/minutes/2017-04-06-discussion.md

### Update from the Program Coordinator (Maneesha Sane)
#### Updates
- Instructor training events
  - May is full of in-person events (South Africa, Federal Reserve Board, Portland, Stanford, Univ. of Florida)
  - Offering online events at scheduled times for sites to sign up for
  - Information for partner sites to sign up for online trainings: http://swcarpentry.github.io/instructor-training/partners/
  - Calendar in place for June-Aug 2017.  Sep-Dec 2017 calendar will be created in June.
- Standard workshops
  - Most workshops are running smoothly.  If my position transitions where I am not focused on details of each individual workshop I’d like to start writing monthly/quarterly/yearly reports on workshop activities so you all get this information regularly
- Relationship with NumFOCUS
  - I have weekly meetings with Lynn and Kendra/Martha (accountants).  There are still occasional bugs but this has greatly improved communication and management of all the financial tasks we need from them.

## Motions presented for email vote since last meeting
None.

## Formal motions 

### Motion 1: The Software Carpentry Steering Committee approves the following structure: A Carpentry umbrella organization and a set of Lesson Carpentries. The umbrella organization is primarily responsible for finances, administration, and facilitating policy.  Each Lesson Carpentry is primarily responsible for lesson development and maintenance.
- **Summary:** 
This motion represents the first in a series introduced as a result of the ongoing merger discussion with Karen Cranston and Hilmar Lapp from Data Carpentry. While this particular resolution may initially leave you with many questions, it represents a commitment on our part to a basic structure for the proposed organization. If this passes, we will be presenting subsequent motions over the next few months that describe the following (we’ll develop a timeline at our next meeting):
Roles and responsibilities of the umbrella organization
Roles and responsibilities of the lesson organizations
Leadership of the umbrella organization (e.g., steering committee, advisory board, executive staff)
Financial model
- **Presented by:** Kate and Rayna
- **Passed? Yes/No: ** The motion passes.
- **Action items:** Kate will provide further updates at the in person meeting.
#### Minutes
- This motion also passed the DC board unanimously. 

### Motion 2: Approve Jonah’s proposal for Maneesha’s job reclassification.
- **Summary:** Please see background document circulated by Jonah via email
- **Presented by:** Kate (Sue, Jonah)
- **Passed? Yes/No: ** The motion passes
- **Action items:** Jonah and Tracy will follow up with process of enacting the job reclassification
#### Minutes
- Note. Maneesha left the room for this discussion. 
- Overall sentiment is that the job reclassification is a move to a more strategic role and less managerial role. 

## Discussion items 

### Topic 1: Assessing subcommittees  
- **Summary:** Do we have SC liaisons for all subcommittees? How would we like to maintain communications with them?
- **Presented by:** Kate
- **Action items** Christina will add an item to the in person meeting to discuss Library Carpentry
#### Minutes
- Updates should be for the benefit community. Providing links to minutes in the newsletter is one current way that we are effectively sharing updates with the community.
-  Currently, Library carpentry is in limbo… not a subcommittee, not a lesson stack. WIll postpone this discussion until the in-person meeting.


### Topic 2: Managing GitHub organizational resources  
- **Summary:** We don’t have anyone officially designated to monitor board and board_pvt, and we don’t have an established review process for issues and PRs. Additionally, Jonah and Greg are the only two owners of the GitHub organization; should we add someone else? Finally, do we want to use teams on GitHub to manage subcommittee notifications?
- **Presented by:** Kate
- **Action items** Rayna and Mateusz will serve as the GitHub wranglers
#### Minutes
- Having three people as managers will be best
- How do we resolve some of outstanding issue and PRs? Rayna and Mateusz will serve as the GitHub wranglers, going through and adding reviewers and adding a notice that old issues will be closed unless there is renewed interest.
- Maneesha was given owner privileges for the GitHub organization
- The new community hire may be given owner privileges for the GitHub organization as well, when the time comes. May remove Greg’s ownership. 

### Topic 3: Instructor Training
- **Summary:** 
  - Items that need steering committee approval include “free/open” trainings. 
  - Training curriculum, and checkout process is determined by trainers group, instructor training maintainers, and director of instructor training.
  - Director of instructor training plans to create an application + review process for accepting new trainers by fall.  
  - Director of instructor training communicates changes to steering committee; steering committee can provide feedback as requested.  
  - (Based on discussion in this doc https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WZRgmU0gl8eT7Yi0asnUvOh9snUvjjYZbJYfd8Hrdj0)
- **Presented by:** Christina
- **Action items** 
- Together we can Identify any items that need approval by the steering committee and in what form (policy document? Specific motions?) 
- Christina will add a discussion of pro bono training at in-person meeting
- Christina will revise the document before May 9 so that we can discuss this at the in person meeting
#### Minutes
- Even though the SWC SC previously agreed to offer 4 open trainings per year, there currently is not mechanisms or formal procedure for setting this up
- One goal is to improve communication between instructor trainers, director of instructor training, and the steering committee.

### Topic 4: Self organised instructor training policy 
- **Summary:** Is there a policy for self organised instructor trainings? Should they be allowed? If so, what should be the procedure for making a decision? What should be the criteria.
- **Presented by:** Mateusz
- **Action items**
#### Minutes
- This discussion was incorporated into the brief discussions above about instructor training

### Topic 5: Lesson development
- **Summary:** We’ve been getting increasing reports of folks (especially newly trained instructors submitting their PRs) becoming frustrated with the process surrounding PR review and acceptance/rejection. We should think about ways to assist both maintainers and the community about expectations surrounding lesson changes.
  - New template for contributions: https://github.com/swcarpentry/shell-novice/pull/553 
  - Should we implement a more formal review process for PRs and engage more folks in issue discussion? 
- **Presented by:** Kate
- **Action items** 
#### Minutes
- Deferred until in person meeting

### Topic 6: Supported lessons
- **Summary:** We have not reassessed the list of supported/maintained lessons in quite some time (listed here). The python-gapminder lesson (http://swcarpentry.github.io/python-novice-gapminder/) is receiving increasing interest, but is not part of our “supported” list yet, and other lessons (like make, mercurial, sql, matlab) are rarely (if ever) taught in general workshops. How do we decide what to support?
- **Presented by:** Kate
- **Action items**
#### Minutes
- Deferred until in person meeting

### Topic 7: Agenda for in-person meeting
- **Summary:** Draft agenda here
- **Presented by:** Christina (Kate)
- **Action items** 
  - Staff - confirm that the proposed times for updates work with your schedule and if the length of time is appropriate
  - All - see the google drive folder for the minutes and detailed agenda and brainstorming documents here 
  - Christina & Kate will finalize the schedule in the next few days

## Open call for questions
None

## SC only meeting (staff excused)
No minutes recorded.

## Adjourn
