# Steering Committee 2017-09-12

## Summary

## Call details
- Link to connect: https://carpentries.zoom.us/j/478465639
- Link to rules for steering committee meetings:  https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/governance.md and https://archive.org/details/Robertsrulesofor00robe_201303 
- Link to Code of Conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct/ 
## Attendance:
### Steering Committee Members Attending
- Mateusz Kuzak
- Sue McClatchy
- Kate Hertweck
- Rayna Harris
- Christina Koch
- Karin Lagesen

## Agenda
- Updates from board members
- Updates from SWC staff members 
- Motions Voted on by email at - the last meeting
- Formal Motions
- Discussion items
- Open call for questions

## Non-verbal/Brief Updates from board members
### Chairâ€™s Updates (Kate Hertweck)
#### Updates

**Lesson infrastructure Subcommittee:**  Meeting to assess pending PRs and issues for shared lesson repos, identify plan of action for merger. Raniere, Kate, Tracy are working to develop a strategic plan for lesson infrastructure priorities over the next ca. 6 months.
**Lesson maintainers Subcommittee:** Christina helping to assess maintainer relationships; need to still find another Python gapminder maintainer.
Jonah performance evaluation: information collection phase completed; have talked with Christina and Sue and developed plan of action.


### Vice-chair updates (Christina Koch)
#### Updates

**Mentoring Subcommittee (Christina):**  
- Discussion sessions continue -- are *extremely* full due to more instructor training being offered.  Might need more sessions -- but the committee will need support in recruiting leaders and making that happen.  
- Move to carpentries/mentoring repository
- Kari is going to be the new staff contact for the mentoring committee

**Instructor Trainer Subcommittee (Christina):**
- New curriculum release ðŸŽ‰
- New trainers getting started with running training
- 6-7 trainings upcoming in the next month.  

### Treasurer updates (Sue McClatchy)  
#### Updates
Please see the August report here:
https://github.com/smcclatchy/board_pvt/blob/smcclatchy-05-may/finances/reports/2017/08-aug/monthly-report.md


#### Action items
Sue will follow up about a payments to Kate and Rayna that are listed but have not been received


### Additional board members updates (Mateusz Kuzak)
#### Updates

**Carpentry Con Task Force (Mateusz):**
1. Continue receiving bids for venues, with a deadline for Friday, September 29th (also send a few reminders in the coming days)
2. Review and rank all submitted venues in the first week of October (2-6 / 10)
3. Communicate with the venues and make the final decision for the venue by the end of October. In the same period, create a list of tasks (and assignees) for all other aspects of the event

**Library Carpentry (Mateusz):**
	there is upcoming meeting (no date yet), will report about it next time

#### Minutes
- There was some worry about the merger. Mateusz trying to smooth the waters to say that this is a good move for everyone. 
- Key to emphasize that this is mostly an administrative and financial move.
- Also important to know that this will help clarify the relationships between organizations

#### Action items


## Updates from SWC Staff Members
### Update from the Executive Director (Jonah Duckles)
#### Updates
- Onboarding new staff (Beth and SherAaron) has taken much of our time lately
- Many new memberships are coming together and getting signed, 
- In-person staff meeting today and tomorrow
- Thursday Tracy and I will have an Initial discussion with a new possible fiscal sponsor in San Francisco (Community Initiatives) is happening. Max Ogden recommended we talk to Keith Chrestron who just took over as CFO for CI. Keith would like CI to move in a direction where they support non-profits with more than just a SanFran reach.
- Will also have a conversation with a law firm that could represent us in the fiscal sponsorship move and/or merger.
 
#### Minutes
- Community Initiatives appears very established and awesome. Upcoming discussion to gain information about processes that we need from a fiscal sponsor. 
http://communityinitiatives.com 
- Comment. It would be good to talk to others people who have worked with Community Initiatives to get a better understanding of the fit
- Question. Do they handle similar projects as ours, and what do they think about our numbers of things that they do? 
- Question. What is the timescale that a decision needs to be made. Answer. Quarterly time-constraints of Community Initiatives and the merger, we might need to approve a future partnership with a potential new sponsor a little bit earlier than the Carpentries is formed to make sure things are good to go in January. 
- This is planning for the future.  We can first decide if we should apply. Then, we decided is we move forward or not. 
Staff have increased in number by three! Very fun to see growth and building and change over of responsibilities and activities.

#### Action items
Jonah will follow up regarding the outcome of the meeting and any future decisions that will need to be made if we are to go this route for fiscal sponsorship
 
## Discussion items 
### Topic 1: Progress and planning for RFCs and elections
- **Summary:** The RFCs will likely be released by the end of the week and open until the end of the month. Can we all check in on the issues once a week or so to respond to comments? We also need to plan the elections (set dates and who will manage them)
- **Presented by:** Kate
- **Action items**
- [ ] Kate will ask Tracy and Jonah about finding someone to manage the election. 
- [ ] Add a â€˜tentative election scheduleâ€™ to the RFC

#### Minutes
- Kate needs volunteers to watch the repo where people will make comments. 
- All documents will be uploaded as markdown files and then issues will be opened for comment by the end of this week
- Option: Propose opening the window to announce running for steering community by: October 9, 2017. Hold the elections the first week of december (4-8)


### Topic 2: Soliciting additional community members for leadership positions
**Summary:** One of our major roles as SC members (even if it doesnâ€™t say so in our job descriptions) is helping to identify and recruit community members to leadership positions. Do we have anyone in mind who is considering running for election? Anyone else we could recruit to help with curriculum? Letâ€™s brainstorm ideas and strategies for keeping our community going!
**Presented by:** Kate
**Action items**
- [ ] Rayna will create and distribute a document of names

#### minutes
- Comment: Much of this has been distributed through blog post. Suggest sending more emails through the discuss list. Questions can be answered in the email thread
- Comment: There could be a open forum for discussion 
- Comment: We could have a open discussion following the RFC closing
- Comment: Everyone currently her was recruited personally. 
- Comment: We can follow up personally with anyone who shows up to the community calls 
- Comment: Everyone on the board could commit to personally contacting 5 people 
- Comment: Would be nice to keep a document that has a list of names of people that have indicated an interest in leadership going forward


### Topic 3:  Managing Multiple Code of Conducts
- **Summary:** Which Code of Conduct should be used at the combined events? For example PyCon has itâ€™s own CofC. It is confusing to have multiple. Should the main focus be on communication and forwarding occurring issues?
- **Presented by:**Mateusz
- **Action items**:
- [ ] Karen will communicate this discussion to the policy and report back about any updates to the CoC. 

#### Minutes
- When multiple code of conducts are in play, how do we gain information about code of conduct violations. 
- Comment: Workshops are very different from conferences.  
- Comment: We do have a very good reputation. CoC is rarely violated but strongly supported. By saying that we want the SWC CoC present it says that we are protecting our community and our brand. 
- Comment: Do we want to have people not just an email as a line of reporting. 
- Comment: Even if all instructors mention the CoC, not everyone knows who to deal with violations. A potential  
- Comment: The current CoC says to report the violation to the host or coordinator. However, listing an instructor would be better because the instructor is a certified SWC mentor.
- Comment: Communicate our code of conduct and options for who to contact. In addition, we could have some language that says â€˜if this is a multi-institutional event, please also refer to there CoC for reportingâ€™
- Comment: Would be great to have a person with a face listed as a point of contact for CarpentryCon

## Formal motions 
### Motion 1: Approve revised Fiscal Sponsorship Agreement (FSA) with NumFOCUS
- **Summary:**  Jonah and Tracy began a discussion nearly a year ago to renegotiate services we receive from NumFOCUS. This revised FSA is one step in that process. Previously, the NumFOCUS fees were calculated based on a 7% sliding scale that adjusts with revenue growth. This FSA changes the terms to a 10% flat fee, and should result in simpler calculations for NumFOCUS to handle. Data Carpentry is currently assessing an identical FSA to allow operations to proceed smoothly and in sync for both organizations.
- **Presented by:**  Kate, Sue, Jonah
- **Passed? Yes/No: **   yes, passes unanimously

#### Minutes
This new policy is a simplification of the older agreement. To not pass this motion would be to forgo our partnerships. Therefore, the is no alternative than to move forward with this.

### Motion 2: Approve the creation of SWC Lesson Organization Task Force
- **Summary:**  Christina is leading the creation of a task force to make decisions about SWC lessons/workshops and determine the ongoing structure of the SWC Lesson Organization under The Carpentries.  See https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/237
- **Presented by:**  Christina
- **Passed? Yes/No: **   yes, unanimously
- **Action items**  
- [ ] Steering committee members will add comments to the pull request if they have any

#### Minutes
- Question: Why not a standing subcommittee? or is that for later? Answer: The immediate task at hand is to figure out what a future standing subcommittee will be responsible for and how it will govern itself
- Comment: Sees like a good strategic plan to get people involved in the short term and before seeking longer term commitments.
- Comment: Would be good to balance the task force members that have experience with SWC lesson development/maintenance and have people that want to build and develop new lessons
- Comment: Also need to articulate the line between The Carpentries and Software Carpentry
- Comment: Will be good to disseminate the information from the task force to The Carpentries, Data Carpentry, and Library Carpentry
- Comment: Guest observers could be invited from the other lesson organization to be there to gain information but not make decisions

## Adjourn
