# Steering Committee 2017-06-05
- Time (15:00 EST/ 14:00 CST/ 19:00 UTC) 
- Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/850076369
- Link to rules for steering committee meetings:  https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/governance.md and https://archive.org/details/Robertsrulesofor00robe_201303 
- Link to Code of Conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct/ 
## Attendance:
### Steering Committee Members Attending
- Sue McClatchy 
- Mateusz Kuzak
- Kate Hertweck
- Belinda Weaver
- Karin Lagesen
- Rayna Harris

### Steering Committee Members & Staff Not attending:
- Christina Koch
- Jonah Duckles
- Erin Becker


## Non-verbal/Brief Updates from board members
### Chair’s Updates (Kate Hertweck)
#### Updates

- **Lesson maintainers Subcommittee:** Nothing to report; another lesson release soon? Will check with Raniere
- **Lesson infrastructure Subcommittee:** SWC Windows Installer: sent requirements to Tracy, waiting to hear back
- Meeting with Advisory Council a few weeks ago
In-person restructuring meeting this week

#### Minutes
- Working on next lesson release in June & July 
- On the radar: thinking about how to properly give credit to people who contributed. There may not be an easy answer. 
- We could send an email and ask if people want to opt in. However, this can be cumbersome with hundreds of authors. 
- Another concern is that the last lesson release didn’t include affiliations. One suggestion is to use a form to collect affiliations. 
- We are also considering using non-automated processes, like people that submitted issues that contributed substantially to the lesson. 
- AC: are generally pretty happy with what we are doing but have some great insight about 
- Kate has been talking with a NumFocus employee who has lots of experiment developing community organizations. 
- Main concern - how will the AC fit in the larger Carpentries organization. Need to have clear discussions with stakeholders. Good point: need to clarify advisors and stakeholders.

#### Action items

### Vice-chair updates (Christina Koch)
#### Updates

- **Mentoring Subcommittee (Christina):**  
    - Main issue right now is recruiting and including new hosts
    - Also, we have a LOT of people coming through checkouts and need a better way to limit the number of trainees per discussion.  Marian + Jamie are trying a few things, but if you have ideas, feel free to get in touch with them.  
- **Instructor Trainer Subcommittee (Christina):**
    - Erin covered most things in the notes below 
    - open training process is continuing, trainer’s agreement was voted on, trainer application was approved and revamp of the instructor training curriculum will be happening this summer.
    - One of my “to-dos” from the in-person meeting was to discuss lesson concerns.  I haven’t done this but I will try to get going on this but don’t hesitate to bug me and hold me accountable!

#### Minutes
- Now that we have a trainers agreement, it would be good to have an instructors agreement. Will be important to talk to Maneesha about this. Mateusz and Belinda will work on this. 
- “Lesson concerns” refers to managing the broader lesson stack concerns: improving the notes, improving the usability, etc.  
- The analysis of notes from instructor discussion sessions have been underways. Erin has taken a brief hiatus to focus on instructor training.


### Treasurer updates (Sue McClatchy)  
#### Updates
- April 2017 finance report

#### Minutes
- Still trying to figure out if all the joint memberships have been split between the two carpentries or not. 
- The prose about the board reserve funds is currently in Sue’s github repo, but this will move soon.
- About $25K issues in invoices
- A few memberships and a few workshops fees
- Sometimes the invoice is lower than the quoted amount, maybe because taxes are removed beforehand…
- When payment for joint partnerships come in, NumFocus wants 1 invoice. Then, it should be spilt before going into the bank, but this doesn’t always happen.... Sue is working on improving this process.

#### Action items

### Secretary updates (Rayna Harris)
#### Updates
-  need to reevaluate the system for publishing minutes and managing GitHub repos for non-curricula things. Moving to google drive only does present some challenges because its not public and there’s no accountability or version control 

#### Minutes
- not all members need to remove every 
- currently minutes are only useful to the people on the boards
- monthly blog post with bullet points about the most important things that the community might want to know about. 
- a specific debriefing might be appropriate for future turnovers. 
- how to we continue managing the notes and minutes of subcommittees and task forces. 
- table discussion for now and revisit the discussion. 


### Additional board members updates (Karin Lagesen)
#### Updates

**Policy Subcommittee (Karin):** Nothing has happened, all is good.


### Additional board members updates (Mateusz Kuzak)
#### Updates

- **Carpentry Con Task Force:**
    - selected chair (Fotis), secretary (Malvika) and Gopher (Mark) for the Task Force
    - drafted the agenda (will brush on that coming week)
    - drafted bid questionnaire (will brush on that coming week)
    - Fotis will write up a blog post about CarpentryCon this week
    - we will arrange the meeting with Maneesha and NumFOCUS to talk about financial and legal aspects
- **Library Carpentry:** 
    - Mozilla Global Sprint was a blast, top active project, 2.5x the contributions of OpenSNP,  the second most active project (Belinda will probably tell more about it) 
    - Continuous working around the globe over the 48 hours. Great engagement from people who came to Portland instructor training. 13 sites (up from six in 2016) and 107 people signed on to work on the sprint (up from about 40 last year). This year we had almost 40 people working remotely, and some new people joined during the sprint itself. Constant networking with chatroom and Zoom sessions opened. Lots of dropins for chatting - Greg and Raniere popped in. Got real engagement from NZ and Utah where groups of librarians went through the lessons and worked on ideas. Helped build communities there going forward.
    - Now have 8 repos - we developed a new web scraping lesson and a Python intro lesson. We are currently working on tidying up after the sprint - closing issues, assigning tasks, setting up new maintainers, managing PRs, etc.
    - https://medium.com/@MozOpenLeaders/mozsprint-by-the-github-numbers-49d518551725
    - the Sprint was a great opportunity to kickstart LC community in the Netherlands, event hosted at Royal Library with archivists and librarians actively involved. Also NZ

#### Minutes
- CarpentryCon18 elected new officers. Working on updating the community with a blog post about current updates, progress, and directions. Will liaison with Sue and NumFocus about the financial responsibility. 
- Library Carpentry was by far the biggest event as part of the Mozilla Sprint and it was a huge community building exercise. Has sparked a discussion about maintenance and governance.
- Belinda wrote a short blog post about how to contribute before the spring, which was very useful for new people https://weaverbel.github.io/lcsprint/



### Update from the Executive Director (Jonah Duckles)
#### Updates
none. 
#### Minutes
none. Jonah out on sick leave.
#### Action items
- Kate will follow up.


### Update from the Director of Instructor Training (Erin Becker)
#### Updates on training
- From April 25th - June 1st, 8 new DC instructors were badged and 22 new Software Carpentry instructors. 
- We ran 5 instructor training events (South Africa, Portland, Federal Reserve Board, Stanford, U. Florida) - also another I think in Australia, but it’s not in AMY??
- No instructor training events in AMY for the next month 
- The application for new Trainers has gone up (June 31st) and is open until July 14th. We have 14 applications so far (July 1st).
- A group of 6 Trainers have been ranking ~350 applications to the open instructor training program. We are planning events to start in September, but one or two may happen earlier if no partners sign up for already available slots. 

#### Updates on curriculum
- Erin and Christina have put together a plan for reorganizing the instructor training curriculum and are getting feedback from Trainers through July 5th.  (link here)
- We are holding an Issue Bonanza (7/13-14) and Bug BBQ (8-3/4) for the instructor training curriculum and planning for publication of the new release August 11th.
- In the past month, 22 PRs to the curriculum have been merged.

#### Updates on policies/procedures
- The Trainers group voted to adopt a Trainers agreement: https://github.com/carpentries/policies/blob/master/trainer-agreement.md 

#### Minutes
- Self organized by certified trainers versus host organized by partner organizations is not a distinction that can be made in AMY. The wording in AMY is clear for regular workshops, but this naming systems does not work instructor training workshops. 

#### Action items
- work with Erin and Maneesah on updating documentation and AMY.  Belinda can approach Erin about this.


## Formal motions 
### Motion 1: Publish the strategic report
- **Summary:** Based on various notes and whiteboard drawings, I have drafted a one page strategic summary. Kate has added some important details. After editing and revisions by all board members, we should publish and disseminate the document.  Link: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GFgPjvsgR7IjqDbmTijQ8FXZO_sGLeztjKiT0TeYlus/edit?usp=sharing 
- **Presented by:** Rayna 
- **Passed? Yes/No:**  Approved by all present members. Non-present members will approve the pull request. 
- **Action items** Rayna will post the document after removing the language about strategic plan

#### Minutes
- One comment from the AC was that this is not a complete strategic plan because it is board centric and does not include the staff or other community 
- Add the 5 points that we will focus on
- Remove the terminology of “strategic plan” might make it more comprehensible
- make it specific that this is just board focus. 

## Adjourn
