# Steering Committee 2017-10-10

## Summary
- We approved a motion to provide all instructor trainers with a book of their choising as both a show of appreciateion and an opportunity for professional development. 
- We discussed the ongoing merger and moving forward with elections for board members

## Details of the call
- 1 pm CST and 6 pm GMT
- Link to connect: https://carpentries.zoom.us/j/478465639
- Link to rules for steering committee meetings:  https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/governance.md and https://archive.org/details/Robertsrulesofor00robe_201303 
- Link to Code of Conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct/ 

## Attendance:
### Steering Committee Members Attending
- Christina Koch
- Kate Hertweck
- Sue McClatchy
- Mateusz Kuzak
- Rayna Harris

### Steering Committee Members Not attending:
- Karin Lagesen

### Carpentry Staff Attending
- Jonah Duckles

## Agenda
- Updates from board members
- Updates from SWC staff members 
- Motions Voted on by email at the last meeting
- Formal Motions
- Discussion items


## Non-verbal/Brief Updates from board members
### Chair’s Updates (Kate Hertweck)
#### Updates
- Jonah performance evaluation: use for feedback and to keep ourselves in line with merger plans, will follow up with Sue/Christina

### Vice-chair updates (Christina Koch)
#### Updates
- Organizing task force for future of SWC lesson org
- Coordinating with Erin about maintainers
- Mentoring: 
- Kari is new staff contact
- Reboot of small group mentoring
- Adding discussion sessions
- Community Award nominations

### Minutes
- Lesson infrastructure: 
    - Erin is touching base with all current maintainers (pan organization) to solicit feedback and ideas for moving forward… creating “job” titles and setting up regular meetings 
- Mentoring:
    - expanding the number of instructor discussion session and demo sessions. Kari will be the staff contact for this.
    - Need to think about finding a new alternative to etherpad (maybe calendly or another resource scheduling slots or something that can integrate automatic email reminders)
    - Need to advertise new slots
- 	Community Award nominations are coming in!

## Action items
- [ ] Christina will ask the mentoring committee for a wishlist of features for a new platform
- [ ] At november meeting, let’s review the nominations

### Treasurer updates (Sue McClatchy)  
#### Updates
- Confirmed that Kate and Rayna were reimbursed for the meeting at Duke
- Karin, Mateusz, and others confirmed reimbursement for steering committee meeting in Davis
- Awaiting September Profit-and-Loss statement from NumFOCUS; meanwhile, the latest financial info is for August: https://github.com/smcclatchy/board_pvt/blob/smcclatchy-05-may/finances/reports/2017/08-aug/monthly-report.md
- After I do report for 3rd quarter, restricted cash reserve balance should be ~$85k, the amount we agreed upon at the Davis meeting. This represents average 2016 quarterly expenses and is our rainy day (or opportunity) fund.

#### Minutes
- Sue will send a report for the third quarter after the numbers come in
- This report should confirm that we have successfully created our $85,000 reserve


### Secretary updates (Rayna Harris)
#### Updates
- [x] Rayna will create and distribute a document of names for encouraging people to run for office https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1isbAd-gFt_CHLBj76dAgEJtdcO6HRP5djThgCqnqv4A/edit#gid=0 


### Additional board members updates (Karin Lagesen)
#### Updates
**Policy Subcommittee (Karin):**
-[ ] Karen will communicate this “managing multiple code of conducts” discussion to the policy and report back about any updates to the CoC. 

### Additional board members updates (Mateusz Kuzak)
#### Updates

**Carpentry Con Task Force (Mateusz):**
- Call for bids closed (10 host sites submitted)
- Voting by TaskForce members untill Friday
- Friday call to pick the winner (most probably between San Sebastian and Dublin)

**Library Carpentry (Mateusz):**
- LC community call was held today, Kate was at the call, interested what she thinks about it
	

#### Minutes
- Carpentry Con
    - Closed the nomination for Carpentry Con sites
    - San Sebastian and Dublin are two prefered sites 
    - There is a trello board for managing to-do tasks. 
    - Will start contacting sponsors 
- Library Carpentry
    - Held a community meeting for the first time in a while
    - Assembling a steering committee with self nominations
    - Need to be more prescriptive about what we expect from onboarding new organizations so that they can be given guidance about how to get onboard.
    - Standardized but flexible processes to provide guidance and expectations without removing autonomy

#### Action items


## Updates from SWC Staff Members
### Update from the Executive Director (Jonah Duckles)
#### Updates
- Community Initiatives application? (requested update from Kate)
- Application is in and will be reviewed on the 3rd Thursday of October.
- Based on feedback from staff, they’re excited and have prepared our case for the board.
- Attending NumFOCUS project sustainability summit
- Landed a meeting with the Siegel Family Foundation while I’m in NYC. They’re excited to find more alignment and will be launching an Open Learning Strategy initiative soon. 
- Next week Will be meeting with Civic Hall, a well funded project taking tech talent in NYC and applying it to civic good. 
- Membership growth continues to be strong:
- We have 51 active members 8 in the signature/invoicing process and 7 more that are strong leads.
- Renewals continue to go well with most members renewing this year
- Elizabeth is up-to-speed and very helpful with this surge of member growth.
 
 
## Discussion items 
### SWC/DC outside of academia
- **Summary:** Does anyone know of places where SWC/DC has taken off outside of academia?  Christina taught a workshop last week and realized that our opportunities for engaging people in industry are limited.  
- **Presented by:** Christina
- **Action items**:

#### Minutes
- Chris Hamm at Monsanto. They have a “fellows” program 
- Seed Valley (rofit organisation for Plant Breeding) in the Netherlands
- Jonah is working with a few companies to develop “mastery programs” for building community and team-building skills

### Topic 2:  Follow up on RFCs, election, other merger issues
- **Summary:** Discussion repo: https://github.com/carpentries/2017Merger/issues, 
summary and action items: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kzlbvGb6mKY7DkF77qCIFq31YLYsZkzsWb_kHbTr7kE/edit?usp=sharing
Timeline for elections: https://github.com/carpentries/2017Merger#timeline 
- **Presented by:** Kate


#### Minutes
- Thanks Christina & Mateusz for help with the language on documentations
- Good amount of feedback from community
- Kate prepared a document for how to respond
- Need to announce in the elections next week!
- Karen Cranston just sent out email for meeting with the elected carpentry board members
- Need to more clearly articulate who does what with respect to lesson and umbrella organizations
- Involve the staff in more conversations (including new staff) for clarify 

## Formal motions 
### Motion 1:  Give a book to all of our trainers for professional development and a thank you 
- **Summary:**  This would serve as a thank you for their contribution during our “year of expansion”. They can buy books and report back to the group about what they have learned. The total cost would be about $2000 and could be split with Data Carpentry. 
- **Presented by:** Jonah Duckles
- **Passed? Yes/No: **   passes unanimously

#### Minutes
- The budget can handle it.
- Given that we do recommend that our trainers read certain books, this could be very important to help our “volunteer trainers” support their contribution
- Monetary gifts feels a little uncomfortable, but avenues where we thank people is important
- Maybe separate the $50 gift card from the thank you. 
- Maybe have a list of books that people can chose from and we will send it to them
- Build the structure for onboarding new organizations in the future.
- Need equal community representation from DC, LC, and SWC on the lesson infrastructure committees
- Need to have a standard for lesson release so that the instructor trainers and instructors can always be up to dates with lesson and such.
- Improving feedback mechanisms when we start thinking about common infrastructure and community

## Adjourn
