# The 2017 Steering Committee In Person Meeting 2017-05-09
- Date May 9-10, 2017
- Time (09:00 PST) 
- Location: University of California, Davis
- Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/850076369
- Link to rules for steering committee meetings: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/governance.md and https://archive.org/details/Robertsrulesofor00robe_201303 
- Link to Code of Conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct/ 


## Attendance:
### Steering Committee Members Attending
- Belinda Weaver
- Karin Lagesen
- Sue McClatchy (arriving Tuesday afternoon)
- Mateusz Kuzak
- Kate Hertweck
- Christina Koch
- Rayna Harris

### Carpentry Staff Attending (which sessions)
- Maneesha Sane (day 2)
- Jonah Duckles (day 1 & 2)
- Erin Becker (day 1 & 2)
- Tracy Teal (day 1 & 2)
- Kari Jordan (not present)

## Summary
The are detailed minutes from the in-person Steering Committee meeting. For a more user-friendly summary of the meeting, 
please see our blog post at https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/06/SteeringCommitteeRetreat.html


## Some of the goals we want this meeting to accomplish
- [x] Create space for staff to communicate concerns and needs to the steering committee
- [x] Develop a closer working relationships among steering committee members
- [x] Focus on productive discussion, regardless of how these issues will translate into an altered organizational structure in the future
- [x] Define the strategic goals and specific objectives for Software Carpentry Lesson Steering Committee 
- [x] Determine what current governance mechanisms will be relinquished to the umbrella Carpentry organization


## Table of Contents
- **Welcome**
- **Updates**
	- Software Carpentry Staff Member Updates
	- Data Carpentry Staff Member Updates
	- Financial update 
	- Advisory Council Update
	- Library Carpentry Update 
- **Discussions** 
	- Windows Installer 
	- Archival of Lesson
	- Instructor training
	- Current roles and responsibilities of the steering committee
	- Strategic Planning for the future
	- Restructuring of Data Carpentry and Software Carpentry
	- Summary of ToDos 
- **Icebreakers**
	- Introductions 
	- Introvert or Extrovert?
	- How you’ve made a difference?
	- Your path to becoming a certified SWC instructor
- **Motions**
	- Travel funding for Kate & Rayna for in-person SWC-DC restructuring meeting 
	- SWC steering committee reserve fund
	- Empowering Erin as the Instructor Trainer


## Welcome
#### Presented by: Kate Hertweck
- Objective: Establish common ground and motivation for the rest of the meeting. Anticipating changes in the future, let’s focus on translatable productive things. Establish and maintain improved working relationships. Make space for conversations. Deliver a 1 page executive summary of our 6 month to 1 year plan that includes pressure points. 
- Overview
	- Day 1: Information collection. 
	- Day 2 AM: Targeted discussion on pressure points.
	- Day 2 PM: Writing, breakout groups 

# Updates

## Updates from SWC Staff Members
- Objectives: Summarize current progress and challenges in areas overseen by staff
- Useful Links:
	- Jonah’s podcast on Talk Python to Me: https://talkpython.fm/episodes/show/93/spreading-python-through-the-sciences-with-software-carpentry 
	- Maneesha’s podcast on Talk Python to Me https://www.podcastinit.com/episode-33-maneesha-sane-on-software-and-data-carpentry/ 
	- Erin’s  post on using work cycles to get things done: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/02/prometheus.html 
	- Erin’s post on the first work cycle: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/03/work-cycles.html 
	- Erin’s post on the second work cycle: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/03/work-cycles.html 
	- Erin’s talk to the Berkeley Institute for Data Science https://bids.berkeley.edu/resources/videos/data-carpentry-training-enable-more-effective-and-reproducible-research 

### Update from the Executive Director (Jonah Duckles)
- Building local communities and real-world skills for the members
- Balancing staff and volunteerism
- Global time zone coverage
- Pathway or rubric for mastery and guiding principles. Graduate attributes. Gobblet: http://www.mygoblet.org 
- Community assembly around lesson

### Update from the Program Coordinator (Maneesha Sane)
- Has been organizing workshops, helping plan curriculum
- Sees a lot of haphazard planning and she steps in to help 
- Sees a need for better communication
- Sees a need for knew/better systems and support structures 
- Sees need for continual support and professional development of instructors to keep them in practice when they haven’t taught in a while to help them stay prepared
- The modular nature creates the impression that learners can pick and choose what they attend. Can inhibit engagement. Is also a concern when you try to make connections from day 1 to day 2 if the instructors don’t stay connected. 
- There is interest from others in the community for helping with support for “out of practice” instructors
- Maneesha will be an excellent advocate for the advisory council
- Increasing buy in with free instructor training in a priority and for getting a return on our investment of training instructors
- Does not recommend combining partner instructor training with open and distributed training?

## Updates from DC Staff Members
- Objectives: Understand roles that DC staff members play in shaping SWC
- Useful links:
	- DC post about Kari, director of assessment: http://www.datacarpentry.org/blog/new-assessment-director/ 
	- Podcast by Tracy on DC: http://ecampus.oregonstate.edu/research/podcast/e31/ 
	- Blog on DG in-person meeting: http://www.datacarpentry.org/blog/steering-committee-in-person/ 
	- Blog about the recent BugBBQ: http://www.datacarpentry.org/blog/bug-bbq-results/


### Update from the Data Carpentry Program Coordinator (Tracy Teal)
- Developing materials around lesson development with potential new grant 
Focusing on: 
- Branching out from the 2 day model
- Staff, pathways and processes to enable the community to interact with us
- Lesson development and the carpentry culture ecosystem around it. Need to remove bottlenecks around this. Had a successful push around ecology. The genomics one is next. Giving ownership to the lesson, and rethinking about the ownership model of lessons.
CarpentryCon
- What are the vocations we offer? Instructor, Instructor trainer, lesson dev, lesson maintainer, mentor
- Business planning. Who are our stakeholders. Financial sustainability. 


### Update from the Director of Instructor Training (Erin Becker)
- Roles: Erin is focusing on curriculum, community. Maneesha is  working on workshops and documentation.
- Currently growing trainer pool by invitation. 9 of 10 will complete training. All staff are certified. Next round by invitation and by open application. Working on increasing connectivity and community with more discussion-based meetings and business meetings about policy.
- Topic for 5 year plan: Need to discuss strategy for instructor training and mentorship as we grow our regular instructor pool and how it affects our financial model. Potential model for capacity: https://www.getguesstimate.com/models/422
- Topics for later discussion: Erin & Christina are co-maintainers. However, there is a lot of input from the trainers about the curriculum. 
- Communication Question: can we have an asynchronous channel for discussion for those who can’t make the meetings. The topic of communication is a broader issue, but this topic can be pushed until later.  
- Topics for discussion: Should minutes for instructor training be stored in github board repo or should these items be stored elsewhere. 
- Topics for later discussion: relationship between new instructors and lesson maintainers regarding lesson development, lesson contributions, pull request, etc. 
- Topic for 5 year plan: New mentoring program started 4 months ago. Most are doing very well but some haven’t done anything. Need more bandwidth to manage the group. Could the community director help liaison between instructor training and mentoring. The onboarding ECOSYSTEM is a topic key priority. Community reporting. 
- Topic for 5 year plan:  Very positive reaction to online workshops. We could have a discussion about dropping in on workshops and teaching people how to effectively teaching online.

## Financial Updates 
#### Presented by: Sue McClatchy
- Objective: Summarize current financial situation
- Ways to maintain and build our reserve
	-  Bring in more membership
	-  Chase down unpaid debts
	-  Chase down payments before they people late
	-  The first two  things are also resource intensive 
	-  Reduce expenses: travel, office, misc, salary, fees
- Potential problem: partnership costs above certain monetary values can create bureaucratic hurdle that makes it challenge to get the payment in less than 90 days. 
- On average is take <60 days to pay. If more, then it almost never gets paid
- Sue will send report to all 90 day past notices to staff & kate
- Pursuing a model for paying for instructor training
- How would be communicate this?
- What else can we offer members to show added value?
- Instructor training involves so much more than just instructor training
- “Building local capacity” is why people buy partnerships
- Having an alternative to the membership model seems financially sounds. 
- Sliding scale, pay what you can
- some institutions have small grants/fellowships to help students with professional development, too, that a student could use to pay for instructor training
- There are some cases where institutions cannot have a partnership but would be interested in paying one offs for instructor training. Would require incorporating credit card agreements. 
- Process for reimbursements
	- Provide screenshot or physical receipts as evidence for for airfare and group transportation
	- Will use $51 per diem for the two travel days


## Updates from Advisory Council  (AC)
#### Presented by Kate Hertweck
- Objective: Summarize current challenges from other SWC stakeholders
- They want a better understand of how we operate and how our goals are and how they can advocate for us. 
- Currently, only a subset are active in this ever growing body of people. 
1. What is the best way that we get input from partners
2. Should they be decision makers?
3. If we change what they look like and how they operate, what would that look like?
- There is a responsibility to provide the updates and managing the relationship which is our financial model, which is why lack of engagement is critical. 
- Problem: currently written as governance but they benefit more from and want more social networking and community engagement. Does someone on the board need to be the AC liaison? Can we change the language around the part of our community so that it is not governance since the scale of the group makes governance feasible. Option: 1) rename as the membership council that we would contact about changes in policy that affect membership and 2) revamp the advisory council as a small group of high-level people that we could/should consult about strategic plan; having these are two separate bodies is the best way to move forward. 


## Library Carpentry Update
#### Presented by: Belinda
-  Blog about LC: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2016/06/library-carpentry-sprint.html
- Main page: http://librarycarpentry.github.io 
- Community is burgeoning! Already many are signed up to do sprints and projects. 
- Creating new python lesson. Will end up with 7 lessons. Have a module curriculum, choose from a menu style. 
- Have rules but don’t yet have a governance structure. There’s about 7-9 core people but not yet a steering committee. 
- Unique people-  the target group are professionals (librarians, archivists, data managers)  not researchers. 
- Last year it was a small thing, too small for governance, but now it's up and running and could benefit from governance.
- Is LC comfortable with the umbrella model of a carpentries? Are there foreseeable problems? 
- What is the incubation phase? What are the expectations? What is the graduation step? 
suggested action: Trademark Carpentry and Carpentries. Articulate what we offer and provide and what expectations we have. 
- Note: Repeating infrastructure can be damaging. Very important to have a pathway.
- What is the financial model? Their isn’t one. But it is aimed at a professional cohort and there has never been a problem finding money to fund workshops and travel to run workshops. 
- Goal: developing expectations for LC integration and future Carpentry expectations

# Discussions

## Windows Installer
#### Presented by: Kate
- Need to change the installer. Don’t want to continue using existing installer. Need Git with windows plus nano, make, and SQL. Trick is getting it made and documented. Everyone is onboard with Windows SDK. Anticipate it will take 2 weeks. Will continue supporting Windows 8 and 10. Expedience is key. 
Action: Kate will write up email with specs and write blog post. Tracy will reach out to possible provider.

## Archival of Lesson
#### Presented by: Kate
- Some lessons are still on the page but the are not being supported. Do we want to make a decision to retire some lesson? 
- Lesson release: Gives us an out to say that this is the last time something was updated and last time it was taught. 
- Agreement that we should not maintain lessons if the tool has gone away. 
- Problem: teaching and maintaining are two different things. 
- Maybe Contributed lessons should go away. Should we use an Active versus inactive nomenclature? 
- Lesson releases provide a checkpoint for quality. 
- Splitting development from production.
- Lowering the barrier to starting with the template. 
- Mateusz, Christina, and Belinda will discuss this in more detail for strategic planning
- Developing intermediate lessons.
- Who is our curriculum manager?
- Categorizing lessons
- Communicating clearly 
- Dealing with contributed lessons
- Lesson releases
- Currently: taught by someone other than the person who created it
- **Decision:** we agree to move forward with developing a process for archiving lessons.


## Discuss Instructor Training
#### Led by: Christina
- Big picture: demand for instructor training and how to management
- Are there other mechanisms outside the partnership model
- Instructor training demands include geography and location not just capacity of number
- What groups are impacted by changes in instructor training?
- A updated/new instructor trainer agreement is being discussed.
- sharing what are the limitations/expectations and clarifying expectations 
- Why do we want to meet our demands? What are our strategic objectives
- Can we decouple the instructor training from the revenue model?
- Important to not take away the power and empower local communities. How do we provide pathways. 
- How, why, do we meet the demand for instructor training
- Evaluating effectiveness of instructor training
- Managing expectations and confounding things
- “Success rate” might be a flawed metric. 
- The how, where, what you teach can be seen as problematic and different from the open/free model. How do we be radically open and still bring in revenue. 
- New Instructor training and mentoring document being drafted.
- Instructor training capacity is being evaluated
- Some values might be in conflict. How do we empower while also maintaining the brand. 
- The rubric for open training: We provide the guidelines for instructor training. 
- WE CAN SCALE AND RETAIN QUALITY (in terms of instructing training and the people who go through instructor training and around mentorship.) it is important that it means something for everything. Right now, we are recognized as a quality product. 
- We could to separate the discussion between doing instructor training as a thing and instructor training to be specifically certified as a SWC instructor.  Who is taking it and what does it mean to be an official swc? How do we keep people engaged even if we don’t get them in the door for instructor training really soon? What is our contingency plan?
- Learner profiles for instructor trainers?
- The fact that they never teach is okay! However, there are some problems when we run an event but no one joins the community. It is a problem when we can never get people through the backlog. Challenge with checkout and getting rejected. Dealing with demotivation is a high priority!
- Why do we train instructors in the first place? How do we tie this to our mission? 
- We are teaching skills that we don’t see taught out there. 
- Identify the outcomes of instructor training. What do we call success.  Jonah & Rayna.  
- Waiting list is a high priority. Come up with robust way to support those that can’t be trained this year. Actually, we need to get as many people trained as fast as possible. Erin and Belinda. 
- Maybe reword it as signing up to become a member of the community, not necessarily sign up to become an instructor. Identify avenues of involvement. 
- Who was the authority to make decisions about instructor training?
- Short term fix: immediately enable trainers to go through applications and start filling slots.
- **Action:** We will write a motion that empowers erin oversee instructor training and communicated with the board. (Christina → vote tomorrow)
- Action: Karin comes up with a list of things/situations where the SC might want to “veto” or provide feedback (Karin)
- **Action:** Get a list of outcomes for instructor training (Jonah, Rayna?)
- **Action:**Create a plan/outreach document for ways to get involved that aren't instructor training (new community lead)
- **Action:**Change application form to be “get involved w/ community” instead of “sign up for instructor training” (Erin and/or the new community lead)


## Update  steering committee responsibilities..
#### Presented by: Karin
- Our list should be exhaustive (i.e. what things does the SC think falls within their purview). The list for staff should not be exhaustive

## Results of the discussion  of steering committee responsibilities..: 
- Finances
	- budgeting	
	- membership agreements (financial model)
	- large un-budgeted expenditures
	- approval of spending processes
	- creation of positions
	- Approval of specific processes and procedures
	- Budget items
	- Large expenditures
	- ACTIONS: Sue will write an approval for a process
	- Memberships agreements
- Staff hires
	- (creation of position)
	- evaluation of senior staff
	- Creation of the position
	- Performance reviews?
	- Senior staff oversees junior staff
	- We evaluate the executive director
- Community
	- CoC
	- oversee task forces and subcommittees
	- The steering committee role gives responsibility to task forces and subcommittees
	- We have strategic planning over what kinds of committees
	- We give community members the power to organize
	- Code of conduct
	- Segments and engagement with them https://docs.google.com/document/d/1c9cFzn1M5iMkgiQbUJ170LOu7qsA33OREKIPmoHagrg/edit?usp=sharing
- Lessons/curriculum
	- kinds of lessons (what makes workshops, core curriculum)
	- determine roles (point person)
	- Currently, no one dictates curriculum
	- Currently, no requests for new lessons
	- Currently, we have some lessons that are not taught much
	- What is the process for developing, maintaining, and teaching lessons?
- Instructor training
	- (to the exclusion of issues related to financial model)	
developing understanding of training priorities
	- Want to be consulted about changes to the process for selected trainees and trainer-trainers. Maybe a yearly evaluation of process and capacity
	- Connected to financial process for financial agreements
	- The director of instructor training is empowered to make all decisions, provided it does not affect our financial model.
	- The steering committee evaluates whether or not these things are working
	- Training outside the financial model should accomplish strategic decisions
- Membership agreements
	- We reserve the right to approve the financial model

## Discussion of restructuring
#### Presented by: Kate
- Blog announcement: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/02/merger-discussion.html
- List of rules and responsibilities of the board and not board https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Twm0DA4g_nqQIP4TyoeyDt6VJzaUTLo_JHaoQO3f6P4/edit
- Overall, we agree on most of the major issues and there is little contention
- Priority that staff feel comfortable during this. Restructuring of duties will help consolidate
- What kind of culture, community, and curriculum are we. 
- What type of governance in general are we interested in having across the organization. 
Representation by the lesson stacks
- Mix of voted and appointed, community nominated
- Continuity is very important
- Major pitfalls to watch for
- Let’s be as open and transparent as we can be. Guide people on what’s different and the same
- What do we want from the advisory council? 
- Current advisory council more of a membership council. This will likely be renamed. - Communication here is crucial. 
- We do want to have a brain trust in the form of an advisory council. But, they have no governance. We would like a guide to the strengths and different expertise of individuals in the brains trust so we know who to contact for high level advice.
- The governance structure becomes simply the steering/board. 
- Minimize the duplication of lessons
- Distinction between software and data carpentry
- SWC is for people who don’t have tools and need to develop new tools. Already have coding skills. And need to be better. Pipelining and workflows
- We need to reevaluate our existing lessons and evaluate which ones are meeting our needs and our mission
- Void in leadership for the maintainers
- Reevaluate the lessons. 


## Retreat summary of todos
- **Immediate concerns (now-six months)**
	- Reconcile restructuring concerns (Kate/Rayna/Tracy/everyone)
	- Identify immediate concerns for the lessons (Kate/Christina)
	- Curated list of further learning resources (Karin/Belinda)
	- Connect with members+community organizers / create list of recommendations (Jonah)
	- How to identify trained but not checked-out instructors (Tracy)
- **Medium term (6-18 months)**
	- Populating the map with an emphasis on diversity (Erin/Sue/Rayna/Kari)
	- Create feedback loops for improving lessons, including lesson templates
	- Local community building
	- Assess inclusiveness of online communities
- **Long term (18+ months)**
	- Community of practice (learners, instructors, trainers)
	- Pathways of involvement / roadmap / mastery rubric
	- Badges / recognition
- **Immediate action items (steering committee)**
	- Windows installer management (Kate)
	- SWC/DC restructuring (Kate/Rayna)
	- Expenditures and resources with rebranding (Jonah)
	- Identify lesson concerns (Kate/Christina)
	- Curated list of further learning resources (Karin/Belinda)
	- Finance processes (Sue)
	- Minutes, blog post (Rayna)


# Icebreaker Activities
**Introductions Icebreaker Activity**
- Objectives: Learn what motivates each of us. Make a list of group strengths / expertise
- Activity: Introduce yourself with the following information
	- Basics (name, background)
	- Causes you really care about
	- What you most value about Software Carpentry
- Commonalities: enabling/empowering, community, technology, natural world, inclusivity, ecosystems 
**Introvert Extrovert Icebreaker Activity**
- Objectives: Better understand each others personalities. 
**Tell one story of how you’ve made a difference**
- Objectives: Better understand each others experiences.
**Describe your path to becoming a certified SWC instructor**
- Objectives: Better understand each other's experiences.
- Result: The ten people at the table all had uniques journey that brought them through  Software Carpentry Instructor to having a seat at today's table. Three of the people all participated in the same distributed on-line instructor training. Most if not all us dove right and and became regulate contributors to the community, curricula, and culture of Software Carpentry.  


# Motions

## Motion to approve travel for Kate and Rayna to discuss the DC/SWC restructure
#### Presented by: Kate
- Overview. Should be less than <$1000
- Results: Approved
- Action: Sue will set up the process for reimbursement.

## Motion to approve a board-designated operating reserve that contains 1 quarter’s worth of the budget
#### Presented by: Sue McClatchy
- https://github.com/smcclatchy/board_pvt/tree/master/policies
- If the executive director needs to request money, he will send a request to Sue and will include a report that shows recent invoice that we expect to come in. 
- Suggests that we reevaluate this every year
- Items in the budget do not require approval. Outside the budget requires approval if above $2000
- Action: Add line item to ask Jonah is the $2000 limit is appropriate or if it should be reevaluated
- Results: Approved

## Motion to empower the Trainer group to move forward with ramping up offering instructor training to non-member affiliated individuals
#### Presented by: Kate
- Summary: We currently have about 500 applicants on the waiting list who are excited to join our community. 
- Results: Approved
- Action: The trainer's group will evaluate the 500 existing applicants, select new instructor trainees, and provide training opportunities while simultaneously work to grow our capacity to offer mentoring and other support to those new instructors

##  Motion to empower staff to perform assigned tasks, with the Steering Committee retaining oversight as described in the Strategic Plan above.
- Results: Approved
