# Steering Committee 2017-03-08
https://bluejeans.com/850076369
## Attendance:
### Steering Committee Members Attending
- Karin Lagesen  
- Jason Williams  
- Raniere Silva  
- Kate Hertweck  
- Rayna Harris  
- Belinda Weaver  
- Mateusz Kuzak  
- Sue McClatchy  
- Christina Koch  
### Steering Committee Members  Not attending:
- Bill Mills
### Software Carpentry Staff Attending
- Jonah Duckles 
 
## Verbal Updates:
### Subcommittee/Task Force Updates
- Carpentry Con Task Force: 
  - Have postponed to fall 2017 or spring 2018
  - Need to plan for non-USA sites or justify using Michigan in first year
  - Should we alternate (US/Europe in the future)
- Mentoring Subcommittee: 
  - Recruiting new people + nominating members for 2017 positions this week
  - Discussion sessions, mentoring program ongoing
- Lesson maintainers Subcommittee: none
- Lesson infrastructure Subcommittee: none
- Policy Subcommittee: none
- Assessment: has been subsumed into Kari’s role, but still taking input for various projects from community members
  
## Item 0 Welcome Chair's Comments, Selection of 2017 Steering Committee Officers [ 15 min, until 0:15]

The following people have volunteer for 
[Steering Committee Roles](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board_pvt/blob/master/governance/committee-roles.md)

**Chair**
- Candidate: Kate Hertweck
- Qualifications/Statement: I’ve been fortunate to have the opportunity to lead auxiliary SC meetings over the last few months, and am interested in bring my skills to the table as chair this year.

**Vice-chair**
- Candidate: Christina Koch
- Qualifications/Statement: I enjoy leading meetings and organizing people.  As I’m a first-year member of the committee, I don’t feel qualified to be the Chair, but I can gladly support the Chair’s activities and fill in as necessary.  

**Treasurer**
- Candidate: Sue McClatchy
- Qualifications/Statement: As a research program manager I prepare and manage budgets for several different projects funded federally or internally. I’ve successfully secured funding for some of these projects by writing grants and enjoy the challenge of finding and securing new funding sources. 

**Secretary** 
- Candidate: Rayna Harris
- Qualifications/Statement: Interested. Good at organizing, taking notes, adding minutes, writing blogs, etc.

### Motion

Motion text: Kate Herteck as Chair, Christina Koch as Vice-Chair, Sue McClatchy as Treasure and Rayna Harris as Secretary.
Background: All persons volunteered for the postions. All positions had only one contestor.
- Presented by: Jason
- Result: Passed
- Action item(s)/Assignee(s): Kate: Write blog post announcing the new officers.

## Item 1 Executive Director's Update and Questions [10 min, until 0:25]

- Hiring update - 7 Candidates have applied so-far
- Fiscal sponsor update - workflows are improving with NumFOCUS and we haven’t found an outside fiscal sponsor that is a good fit for us yet.
- Staff have been working to automate key recurring tasks, certificate creation, quarterly pre/post workshop survey reporting, instructor training and workshop logistics.
- We’ve been approached by the Midwest Big Data Hub to be involved in some training efforts there. More to come soon.
- Compute Canada is going to shift to a capacity building catalyzing role. They had been the source for instructors in Canada, but they don’t want to be the bottleneck anymore.

#### Minutes

- a lot of people interested in Carpentries in New Zealand
- new partnerships,
- planning interviews for the community coordinator position
- workflows with numfocus are improving
- Stuff works on automating workflows:
- certificates based on data in AMY
- plots on influence of the workshops
- Midwest data hub is interested in collaboration with SWC
- Compute Canada is not thinking of growing the instructor pool more than they already have.
- They will shift to community building role.
- ELIXIR all hands meet in Rome coming soon
- Allegra Via will have a workshop there
- CW17 in Leeds too:
- Jonah will give a tutorial on building new lesson
- Numfocus: we now see the reports on how much money we have, what’s paid what’s due
- Survey from advisory committee with 30 respondents.
- Question should SC be CCd on AC mail?

 ## Item 2 Instructor Director's Update and Questions [5 min, until 0:30]

#### Minutes
- Erin is not present. No update.
- Erin will not sit in for every SC meeting.
- there is a discussion about if the trainer can also do a demo session for the person who he taught; more info: https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-training/issues/392
- there is a need for more info on certification process
- There is an agenda 3 months forward where new trainers can fill in the slots when they’re available 
- **Action**: Christina & Belinda will have a discussion with Erin regarding 1) improved the documentaion on the process of training and certification 2) clarifying what changes to the process must first be approved of by the steering committee. 
- **Action**:Rayna & Christina will have report back from trainer subcommittee for each meeting rather than have a instructor director’s update.

## Item3 Administrative Update and Questions [5 min, until 0:35]
#### Minutes
- Maneesha developing onboarding document for new membership agreements
- Current meeting time slot not good for Maneesha
- Considering new time slot for SWC SC meetings: 1h earlier.
- **Action**:Kate will create a doodle pool to determine a more appropriate time for future board meetings.  


## Item 3 Discussion items 
### Discuss: Carpentry Merging
Summary: Follow up from last meeting’s motion “ We will begin a discussion with the Data Carpentry board about a merger into a joint organization.” We’ve been asked to spend some time (at least an hour) discussing as a group where we stand on the issue, including pros/cons and possible sources of contention. Perhaps an auxiliary meeting on March 15 or 22?
- Presented by: Kate, Rayna
- **Action item(s)/Assignee(s):** Kate will being a working document with accumulated notes
- **Action item(s)/Assignee(s):** Auxiliary meeting set for next week, same time

### Discuss: Choosing dates for in-person meeting
Summary: We meet as a Steering Committee in person once a year. We need to determine when and where our meeting will take place. Some ideas include:
	When: May?
	Where: Davis, CA? 
- Presented by: Kate
- **Action item(s)/Assignee(s):** Jonah will email Tracy to continue the conversation of hosting in Davis for two days during the week of (May 9-12)

#### Minutes
- Last year we met in May in Cold Spring Harbour.  
- Tracy Teal has offered a space for us to meet in Davis, CA.
- 2nd week of May would work well for Belinda, Jonah, Kate, Rayna, Karin, Mateusz, Christina , Sue. May 8 does not work for Rayna. Will move forward with 2 days between May 8-12.
- All travel costs covered by SCF.
- Note: Mateusz will be getting first USA visa!  yes!

### Discuss: Location for Carpentry Con
Summary: The Carpentry Con task for was planning to host the first Carpentry Con in Michigan. However, travel to the US may be prohibitive for many. The vision is to alternate the location of Carpentry Con between the Americas, Europe, and Oceania. The questions is: with the global vision in mind, is it okay to continue planning for an event in Michigan or should we move the first event to either Canada or Europe. 
- Presented by: Rayna & Mateusz
- **Action item(s)/Assignee(s):** Rayna & Mateusz will respond will confirmation to move forward with Europe 2018

#### Minutes
- Vote: shift to Spring 2018 in Europe or Canada?
- Spring 2018? Has four +1s. This conveys that our community is open to all!
- In Canada or Europe? EMBL (Heidelberg) is a good option.
- Announcing now will give people time to plan and time to raise money. 
- Sponsorship for travel sponsorships would be awesome. ELIXIR/EMBL others would be great! Suggestion:  CSV conf does this: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/csvconfv3-tickets-31068238939#tickets

# Adjourn
