# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

__Date:__ 2017-08-28

__Time:__ 13:00 & 21:00 UTC

## Co-Chairs

- Jamie Hadwin (1st)
- Marian Schmidt (2nd)

## Attending

- Toby Hodges (1st) 
- Paula Andrea Martinez (1st)
- Mateusz Kuzak (1st)
- Tobin Magle (2nd)
- Erin Becker (2nd)
- Chris Hamm (2nd)
- Juan Steyn (1st)
- Christina Koch (1st)
- Mark Laufersweiler (2nd)

## Apologies

- Belinda Weaver (on the road, teaching)

## Actions/Resolutions

- JH/MS to add to onboarding doc:
  - mention of host controlling size of discussion sessions
  - instruction to send names of everyone who was present in the discussion (including host and notetaker)
- EB/MS/JH to contact discussion session hosts and ask them to recruit notetaker as volunteer from checking-out session attendees
- MK, MS, JH, TH, CK to migrate mentoring subcommittee materials to new carpentries repository

## Minutes

### Introductions

### Recap from last meeting

No updates from Training or Steering Committees last meeting

#### Discussion sessions

- Mentoring Committee Challenge:
  - All on the committee should challenge themselves to host one session a month
  - All on the committee should challenge a friend to participate in one discussion session a month
- New sign up format seems to be going well so far
  - People are emailing hosts/co-hosts when a session has filled
  - Haven't heard of any issues of people not being able to join a session after it has reached 6 participants
  - Suggestion: work with the person who tracks training/certification to reach out to people who are nearing deadline

#### Task force:

- Survey:
  - What will we do with results?
  - Plan to share through casual methods (social media, slack, AMY email lists (discussion list), Toby to write a blog post)
  - Encourage people to also sign up for calendar and Slack/social media

#### Discussion Coordinator - Volunteer position

- Some interest from Paula on 1st call - Paula and Jamie working on onboarding document for this role (link to be posted)

#### Getting community more engaged/participating in instructor discussion sessions

- Some kind of credit system? Rewarding those who host/co-host (i.e. through a monthly drawing)

### Main Agenda Items

#### Updates from liaisons

- __Training Committee (Erin):__
  - "We have been doing a number of open instructor training events, reaching many new instructors in countries without a large Carpentries presence. So it would be good to let the mentoring committee know that they'll be seeing folks with different backgrounds coming through the discussion sessions."
  - "We're also planning a new release of the instructor training materials in the next couple of weeks that are significantly updated. I don't know if this will impact anything in the discussions, but trainees might start using some new vocab that older instructors aren't as familiar with."

###### First Meeting

- MK: Every session that I host, I get at least one email asking to join. Many more checkouts than debriefs/pre-workshop. I don't think that this is good for the sessions. Already hard, but increasing the number of sessions won't (necessarily) increase the number of pre-/debriefs.
- CK: Need to have a discussion amongst the instructor trainers. I think that limiting number of slots has helped.
- JH: Erin is working on a summary of the changes in this new release

- __Steering Committee (Christina):__
  - The Software and Data Carpentry re-organization is moving along. See the latest blog post announcement here: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/08/mergermotions.html  Relevant information for this community: 
    - In the future, sub-committees will have a staff point person, so after the merger, someone from the new Carpentries organization will be helping with the mentoring committee
    - The  mentoring committee is something that applies across carpentries, so we will be helping move out of the swcarpentry/board repo into a carpentries/mentoring repo soon
  - More discussion is happening about CarpentryCon, people in this committee might be interested in checking it out.
    - http://pad.software-carpentry.org/2018carpentrycontaskforce

###### First Meeting

- MK: now the CarpentryCon committee knows more what they want - more of an unconference, keynote, interactive sessions - two days with an extra day for community-organized events - but two days would be the core - more venue requirements set out by group
- Community members are encouraged to join the next CarpentryCon planning meeting on September 7th. See the etherpad (link above) for more info
  - Google form for venue suggestions, requirements in the etherpad
  - Want to try to do it at university/academic venues (lower cost)
  - Also compiling a list of (potential) sponsors, but this is a bit dependent on/specific to location

###### Second Meeting

- Erin just got off of a call with Kari Jordan to pass over the duties mentoring program. Most likely mentoring committee members will be contacted. 
  - Our committee will play an advisory role but day to day operations there's not need for our committee to be involved. 

#### How are the discussion sessions going?

- __Recruiting September discussion leaders!__ http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion

###### First Meeting

- One session (20 Sep) still missing a host (& co-host) - Juan Steyn signed up as host.
- JH: We still would benefit from new ways to encourage experienced instructors to become hosts etc/more involved in general. Sharing the onboarding document might help. TH writing a blogpost too.
  - Onboarding Doc: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/subcommittees/mentoring/onboarding-document.md +1
- JS: We have an instructor training in October. We could go through the onboarding doc/discuss the importance & benefit of attending discussion sessions.
- MK: need to be more clear that it's not just about pre/debriefing. Should emphasise that it would be great for people to contribute any time they are available.
- TH: this is what I'm hoping to emphasise in blogpost
- JH: Mentoring committee could act as liasions for this. Challenges to mentoring committee members could help to raise the numbers. Thanks Toby for bringing this up!
- MK: I like this approach similar to how Toby got involved (through Anelda) - invite someone to join first as co-host and then, when they're comfortable, they can take over hosting duties.
- JH: I've been doing something similar with PA in several recent sessions. A nice way to also spend more time chatting with Paula
- CK: Good to email the committee to find other hosts, if you know someone who wants to get more involved but you can't do it yourself (e.g. due to timezones)

- __New sign-up format__ - 4 slots for checkouts, 2 slots for post-workshop/debriefs - email host if session is full
  - Please remember to put your email on the etherpad when you sign up to help host instructor discussions
  - A recent instructor trainee suggested during busy checkout times that more slots should be added
  - Should we go ahead and move to 8 slots instead of 6?

###### First Meeting

- JH: seems that system with checkouts emailing hosts is working well. Also need to make sure that the checkout monitoring people are keeping an eye out for people who are coming close to their deadlines.
- CK: maybe we should be increasing the pre-/de-briefing slots? +1
- MK: good to have more balance - less like a factory! I have an instructor training in Manchester in 1week - thinking about getting the trainees signed up at the end of the training session. I've also realised that data in AMY is outdated - planning to ask people to update their data too.
- JH: I think those are good ideas and would be great to be updated on how it goes during your training workshop Mateusz! As well as giving a good overview for the checkout process it's good to cover the more long-term benefits of attending sessions.
- PA: We could contact people who are planning workshops, to prompt them to join sessions.
- JH: I've had one piece of negative feedback about limiting slots, but I like being able to talk to people by email before the call.
- MK: I was wondering what people's policy is on acceptinge extra people?
- JH: I usually limit to 8 total. That's manageable with a co-host, but I would be more concerned if hosting alone. Especially don't want people to be overwhelmed when getting started as a host. Perhaps we can add this to the onboarding document - let people know that, as host, they can control how large their sessions become.
- CK: I've accepted one extra before.
- JS: if it's possible to get more experienced instructors, it's easier to then have more checkouts too. +1
- MK: problem is that we are training more and more people, don't want to create too much of a bottleneck.
- TH: could have a place/person that people could email to register their interest in (co-)hosting
- PA: we could add a “guest” slot. :)
- JS: we could tell people that they could email the mentoring committee to announce availability to host an ad-hoc session. might help people who work in other timezones to organise sessions that suit them well.
- MK: would be interested to see if European morning sessions could work (also works for South Africa and Australia and NZ).+1+1
- JH: This is certainly possible. Souds good.
- CK: that would also be good for Australia, I think
- TH: I'd be happy to do some European morning sessions

- EB AGENDA ITEM: With the number of people going through instructor training, the __number of emails about full discussion sessions and teaching demos has been increasing__. 

###### Second Meeting

- EB: Trainer's committee decided to increase the number of demos from 2-3  - what about the instructor discussions?
- Marian: What's the role of instructor discussions in the instructor training check out? 
- EB: We have a real shortage of spaces for people going through checkouts and they're having a really hard time getting into these things.
  - For example, there was a student just finished and all discussions were full until the end of october! (Early august training)
  - One option: discussion leaders AND notetakers but it doubles the workforce for discussions. 
  - Erin: What if we didn't need a host?  What if people who were debriefing led the discussion? 
- ML: What if they're first time teachers?
- EB: If erin is in the session and they're both very negative about their experiences she can be a moderating host
- MS: We already have a shortage of discussion debrief and prebriefs 
- EB: If you can't talk me into doing a debrief (and I get paid!) then what do we do? 
- ML: after doing a couple of debriefs - if you've done more than 3 workshops, instead of a debrief - let's host a discussion!
  - Can I sign up as a host AND a debrief (if I've recently taught)?
  - MS: This seems efficient! 
- EB: We don't talk about discussion sessions in the training besides as its required 
- Instead of going deeply into how JAPANESEWORD is incorporated in Japan but instead frame it in how we in our carpentries community and how we support each other
- Communities of practice - teaching discussions - can count a bit towards service. Can we put together a certificate or something to encourage people to get involved?
- ML: Certificate is good - but who will report?
- EB: People who are hosting discussions have to send a list to the admin assistant.  The admin could do this for the discussion session leaders. It could be a flag in the database for attending discussions. The workload won't be much extra work.
- EB: How do we ensure that the capacity is there?
- EB: Trainers group has been very successful in recruiting new trainers!  In the last 6 months - 25 new trainers to do a very significant amount of work. 
- MS: It's way more of a benefit to be a trainer than to be invovlved in discussions or in the mentoring committee
- ML: If this is a path towards trainers and trainership --> they should be involved in debriefs and hosting of discussions!  THEN - you can be eligible for trainers. This is one of the things that you have to do to be trainers. 
- EB: We discussed that it could be a requirement to become a trainer that you were on the mentoring committee or involved in other ways. We did not do this because we wanted to grow the trainer pool outside of the large carpentries community existed and to be inclusive of people in places where there are not 
- ML: 5 slots could be for people in new areas and such. However, the other 10 slots of trainers will need to be involved in A, B, C aspects of our carpentries community. 
- EB: Maintainers, hackathons, there are many ways to be involved in our community besides mentoring. Being a mentor isn't a stepping stone to be a trainer. How can we give mentors the prestige of being a trainer?
- EB: What if mentors get additional training in stereotype threat/imposter syndrome? And then that enables them.  Once they get status - we can ask them to do more things. 
- EB: Principle in religious studies. Ask for more things --> you create more prestige and expectation
- MS: Discussions are very brief and don't allow for deep connections whereas people can build deeper connections through the mentoring program started by erin (now Kari)
- EB: Discussions are very formulaic - same questions and same conversations come up (e.g. install issues, too fast/too slow
- ML: How can we give people the skills/training to facilitate meetings? Can we give them training on how to be a facilitator. What are some hints/practices to bring people into the discussion and provide a voice to all of the people.
- ML: Issue of growth --> carpentries staff are here to facilitate us, the community, and so we as a community need to step up. Staff is here for the lessons, pedagogy, and so on but some of this day-to-day running.  What are the hand-offs. What is community driven versus staff oriented? How can we utilize the staff to the best of their ability and how can utilize volunteers to the best we can?
- EB: From staff perspective: how can we scale everything so the different parts support each other.  Now - we have a huge growth in instructor training and the other aspects haven't grown. I think its the staffs responsibility to make sure the resources and focus are where they need to be. And we haven't, as staff, put enough attention towards. 
- EB: How can we increase our capacity to provide the support for people who are running workshops on a day-to-day basis?
- EB: Now we have people in our community in Mexico and Venezuela --> we need to have more support for these people.  Ideally people who have similar challenges. 
- ML: Open up to entire globe. We can have them for specific regions. Then we can invite people within those regions to host region-specific discussions.
- MS:  Determine a way for people to sign up their availability (especially in international communities) to host more ad-hoc discussion sessions
- Eventually could work to incorporate a way to have potential Europe/Aust/NZ instructors host their own discussion sessions - could help with language barriers, too
- EB: Teaching demos are now available in spanish thanks to Rayna and Sue. However, discussions are not as big of a deal for this. 
- MS: Active proportion of our community needs to grow in proportion to the number of certified instructors
- EB: Now a movement on the project of making spanish translation for carpentry materials. There will soon be official translations Paula Andrea and Francisco Palm are leading this. 
- How do we bring up the prestige level of participating in discussions/mentoring committee?
- MS: Can we have instructor checkouts take notes?
- EB: This is great --> let's try this! 
- ML: Do it right now for people!
- EB: Contact current notetakers for upcoming sessions and tell them we're changing the system and ask for note-taking volunteers 

- Short __survey gauging why people do or don't come to discussion sessions__; what would make them more likely to come (content, timing for example)
  - Review the survey here & give feedback: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eFIrCRPt7gHVSDi5Yd_4JPDDsLGowv2uG4jTBjf4vsI/edit

###### First Meeting

- TH: important to try to convince people who haven't attended the sessions to go ahead and fill out the survey - emphasize how fast the survey will be to fill out - make it easy for them
- JH: any suggestions for platform?
- JS: google forms is good for easy distribution and gives basic statistics quickly
- CK: would be good to send out to the Carpentry local champions - http://pad.software-carpentry.org/champions
- PA: sharing it with the new instructors
- MK: I could share through the carpentries NL list. I find google forms very easy to make but very hard to analyse. SurveyMonkey is a bit harder to create but easier to analyse. If the answers are more than yes/no, surveymonkey might be better.
- JH: I'm familiar with SurveyMonkey. Several possible people who could analyse the data - JH, MS, TH (MC side), CK, EB (trainers/SC side), KJ, MS, BW (Carpentries side)...
  - Probably JH/MS from MC for sure, one from trainer/steering, one from Carpentries side - someone already doing assessment? Or our future Carpentries staff liaison?

#### Mentoring Committee Onboarding Document
- Mentoring Committee onboarding doc has been posted in the following places: https://tinyurl.com/onboarding-mentoring
 - Markdown file created (PR awaiting approval/merge) to be shared the following places:
  - SWC/DC websites -  "Join Us" pages
  - SWC/DC websites - Mentoring Committee pages
  - SWC/DC websites - Instructor Checklist pages
  - Github - Mentoring Committee ReadMe; Instructor Training ReadMe
- Where else can we share? Should we stick with markdown or also share through Google Doc format?
- Next steps: announce document on social media/Slack/blogs

###### First Meeting

- JH: Belinda sharing the Onboarding Document on tomorrow's newsletter - could see an influx of interest or possibly co-hosts/hosts once that is shared

#### Becoming more engaged with mentoring subcommittee

- Discussion Coordinator - volunteer position

###### First Meeting

- Still a work in progress - Paula has contributed to the document with feedback: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1buwoOjTdWeT1YYO90Ysf_fr0IBKC66ix_mXZJ3e_tpU/edit?usp=sharing
- PA: I'm interested but at the moment I don't know where I'll be next month so need to be more settled before I can commit. Also need to figure out how to get relevant info out of AMY.
- JH: discussing this with Maneesha. I think she's waiting until she has additional help. Good to address this, to make it easier to get the info needed to do discussion coordination. Take a look through the document - it's pretty straightforward. Took MK about 30 mins to walk me through it.

- __Future questionnaire__: form for hosts to fill out after a discussion session

#### Closing ideas..... 

- __Mentoring Committee Wishlist__ - Please keep adding!!!
  - In the ideal world - what would the mentoring committee look like to you? Write your thoughts below...

- Juan: I think maby a commitee partly in "flux" working on mini projects. Doing reflecting planning cycles...  Secondly, there are normal standard agenda items that will be part of a status quo.
What my experience is thus far is that the mentoring commitee facilitates / assist new members to join and get involved with the community as they provide opportunity to become more involved in an organic way
- Tobin: as a well-advertised place that instructors can go to for help. I had a lot of local support, but i can see it being hard for trainers who don't have more experience geographically close.
- Jamie: MC is a place where instructors can turn to for feedback, help, and to share problems/issues they may be facing as an instructor - MC hears these issues and works together to create solutions i.e. through Juan's suggestion of "mini projects" like the onboarding doc
- Toby: a friendly group of people interested in making becoming/being an instructor easier and more enjoyable. It should be clear that this is a subcommittee that anyone can join, and meetings that people should feel free to drop in on, without any expectation that they will keep returning forever i.e. attendance does not equal/require "membership". 
  - (PS are we likely to change the name? It's a bit strange to me that we don't (actively) do much mentoring. This almost stopped me from coming to the meetings originally - I didn't/don't feel experienced enough to be mentoring others!)

###### Second Meeting

- ML: In order to build sustainability in a group - rotations are needed! Have parties (or some form of recognition) to take a moment to acknoweldge the service of our community members. 
- EB: We can have the admin take the information 
- UPDATE TO ONBOARDING DOCUMENT: Send the names of everyone who was present in the discussion (including host and notetaker)

- Plan:
  - add a slot to new demo sessions for a designated notetaker under instructor training checkout slots
  - remove notetaker role and have a designated notetaker (or 2) in the participants

- Steps:
  - schedule an additional discussion session each week (that doesn't conflict with anything else on the Carpentries calendar)
  - put those events on the Carpentries calendar
  - put those events on the Etherpad
  - put out a call for hosts (also contact existing notetakers and ask them to change from notetaking to hosting a different session)
  - advertise to Discuss/Twitter that we now have new sessions
- MS: will communicate with Jamie/Mateusz about a plan 


#### *Walk-ons: please add additional topics below

- MK: we should contribute to the __new carpentries repo__. I'd like to start to do this. anyone else want to help?
  - TH: +1
  - CK: +1
  - JH: +1

- PA: __new community for Latin America__. Translating lessons to Spanish, hosting spanish language discussion sessions etc
  - MK: Rayna Harris & Sue McClatchy are already hosting a few sessions in spanish, I think
  - JH: This has been a topic in previous sessions - how to start supporting discussions in other languages.
