# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 2017-05-22

Time: 13:00 UTC

How to connect: https://bluejeans.com/356620434

## Attending

- Erin Becker (2nd meeting)
- Marian Schmidt (2nd meeting)
- Jamie Hadwin (1st meeting)
- Chris Hamm (2nd meeting)
- Toby Hodges (1st meeting)
- Christina Koch (1st meeting / probably 2nd too)
- Mark Laufersweiler (2nd)
- Paula Andrea Martinez (made it to 1st meeting shortly) - thanks Paula for all your contributions on the doc! Great to "see" you on the call!
- Raniere Silva (1st meeting)
- Juan Steyn (1st meeting)
- Tracy Teal (2nd)

## Apologies

- Belinda Weaver
- Mateusz Kuzak

## Actions/Resolutions

- 

## Minutes

### Welcome

- Marian and Chris met in person in 2015. Who knew?


### Updates from liaisons

#### Trainers (Erin Becker)

"Software and Data Carpentry jointly lead two-day workshops for training new instructors. After completing the two day workshop for instructor training, trainees then need to do a lesson contribution (which can be a PR, an issue or in some cases submitted by email), participate in a discussion session and do a teaching demonstration. After completing these three steps, trainees are certified for the Carpentry (Software or Data) for which they did the lesson contribution and teaching demonstration and will receive a certificate instructor badge for that Carpentry. They are also eligible to teach for the other Carpentry, but will not receive an official badge unless they go through the lesson contribution and demonstration process for that organization. Library Carpentry certification is independent of SWC/DC certification and trainees should avoid selecting LC materials for their contribution and demonstration unless they've communicated directly with the director of instructor training (Erin Becker) for an exemption. All trainees have three months to complete certification. If they need additional time they should contact checkout@carpentries.org to discuss an extension."

###### First Meeting

- A lot of people who are SWC certified are now interested in becoming certified in DC too. 
- As long as trainees are keeping in touch with director of instructor training (email above), it's not a big problem if they go slightly over the deadline. Having to go a long time past deadline, should be discussed with instructor training director about what they'd like to do. Main thing - keep in touch!

JS: seems like there's a big influx of checkouts in discussion sessions, not many exerienced instructors doing pre-/post- workshop discussion. Perhaps this is cyclical - experienced instructors don't attend because they don't see others attending. Is there anything that we can do to redress the balance?

JH: One suggestion was bringing helpers into discussion sessions - help to encourage them to become more involved in community. (see below)

###### Second Meeting

__Update from Erin on the Trainers:__

- New group of trainers have finished training (including Chris + Mark) and are proceeding to teach in the next few months.
  - Application for next cohort of ~10 trainers will be going live next week, training to start in July
  - Will be going back through the backlog of people who have applied to go through instructor training (350 people who haven't done *any* part of the training process)
- 7 open instructor training programs in the next year : 1 event on west coast NA ; central/mountain NA;  east coast NA + Brazil / eastern africa & eastern europe; Central Europe + Africa ; South East Asia; Australia/NZ
  - Will impact # of people in instructor discussions, timing of meetings 
    - How to get instructors and have them to be "champions" and build enthusiasm in their local communities 
    - How to communicate the value of the type of work we teach and the carpentries to their organizations? 

ML: For instructor training events how to logistically will we try to pair up people to have a one-to-one training? Or extra helpers? (Zoom - allows break out rooms)

TT: Just talked to Jonah and we will be getting a zoom membership.  It would be a full replacement (at least until after July.)

#### Steering Committee (Christina Koch)

- The Software and Data Carpentry organizations are in the process of discussing/moving towards a restructured organization with an umbrella "Carpentries" name and then individual lesson organizations underneath.  Something like the mentoring committee would probably take place under the umbrella org as it applies to multiple lessons.
  - Remove redundancy
- The new community manager should be coming on within a month, will likely be involved with the efforts of the mentoring committee.

###### First Meeting

- Community Call notes from last week: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/community-call-2017-05-18

RS: Who is the new community manager?
  
CK: I don't think I can say if it hasn't been announced yet.

JH: Erin is starting to process the backlog of training requests.  

CK: I think that there will be more and more training, and a bunch more instructor trainers have just been signed up. Potential for more contributors to the committee/involvement in general.

JH: Maybe the onboarding doc will help to encourage contribution to the Mentoring subcommittee from the wider community.

###### Second Meeting

#### Supporting Spanish language speakers in a mentorship situation

- Currently everything is in English and may not be the case in the future - how can we support this? 
  - Does anyone in the mentorship group speak Spanish? Should we have alternate meetings (6-12 months down the road) for the mentoring committee?  
  - EB - I was talking about alternatate Spanish-language meetings for discussion groups, not necessarily the mentoring committee.
- Update from the Community call on the merger: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/05/may-cc-report.html

ML: preservation of the pedagogy of teaching.  How do learners learn, how to engage participants. Teaching of the topics is still on point and a benefit to the learners.

### Discussion Sessions

http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion

#### __We need some June & July discussion leaders!__
  
- Can helpers participate in discussions? 
- JS: +1
- Could it be a good way to bring them into community?

###### First Meeting

JS: helpers not as intensively involved with a workshop, but still see how everything is working. May be able to commit time to discussions, and benefit from them too.

JH: how would we contact helpers? Maybe Mateusz can help with this as discussion coordinator?

CK: Maneesha might know if there's a way to extract that info from AMY. Perhaps including "please forward this to your helpers" in emails to instructors?

JH: Encouraging people who are active in community to help with this?

JS: Could add to lead instructor checklist 
  
JH: +1

TH: +1

JH: will bring this up at a local community meeting soon.

###### Second Meeting

EB: Chronic shortage of hosts/co-hosts on the discussion session. We have some new folks but we still seem to have shortage. How do we productively and sustainably grow?

MS: Onboarding doc can help ease the burden with this!

EB: The doc is great for people who are already interested. How can we get people to volunteer who haven't thought of getting involved? 

CK: Emailed Belinda in AUS/NZ that were interested in hosting discussion.  At the time didn't have the bandwidth to follow up with them. Maybe a community manager to help recruit volunteers? Can reach out to people directly and follow up with them via email?
Many people think that individual reaching out is a great way to recruit people. 

TT: Instead of having people sign up on their own on the etherpad, we could have a form that people fill out and then have someone add it into the etherpad. Front end experience is very important. 

MS: Would this form be on the etherpad or emailed to individual people?

TT: It would be both. 

ML: Put link on the "Get Involved" tab of the website

TT: Look at specific people to host rather than have people volunteer themselves. 

EB: Right now, people sign up for a list and an email could follow up to get them involved

CK: We have a separate list for discussion hosts: discussion-hosts@carpentries.org

TT/EB: Erin can help with script emails 

ML: I'll write a blog about how I got involved and being signed up with slack/google calendar.  When I noticed that a discussion was happening I would join if I had an open hour.  If you have the open time and you want to - pop into the room and offer help/experience with the instructor discussion 

TT: Has there been a drop off in the number of debriefs? 

CK: It's been an issue for a long time.

TT: The same people are teaching workshops and they're less likely to attend discussions. Ways to become an instructor trainer - get involved with the discussions. 

EB: We should allow diverse modes of participation

CH: We keep adding to the requirements for becoming an instructor.  By asking for more and more, we might be turning people off from our organization. 

EB: We're talking about trainers and we don't want to add.  It would be good to have different points for the types of involvement. 

TT: If people aren't finding them useful then we shouldn't have them. Discussions are good for learning what to do differently next time and to get feedback on teaching. Not just doing it for the greater good but doing it for yourself. 

TT: Broaden the pools! What's the win for people who aren't on subcommittees? How do other volunteer organizations get volunteers?

TT: People in our community really value being mentors. When work aligns with values it gets people more motivated 

EB: Do we have testimonials from discussion hosts that can help generate enthusiasm? 

TT: Community development person can help out with this (mid-June and will be announced when paperwork is signed).

MS: Where to deposit ideas?

TT: TBD - maybe google doc or something that can be open. Community person could be in charge of the document 

#### Checkouts

- What to do when all attendees of a discussion session are checking out trainee instructors? Best approach(es) to encourage people to not fill a session with all the same type of attendees without creating barriers?

###### First Meeting

JH: A lot of sessions full of checking out trainees coming up

CK: I like the idea of having two separate different sign-up lists - checkouts & pre-/post-workshop

RS: need some assessment of why different sessions have such different numbers of signups. 

JH: Do you know if anyone is already assessing trends on discussion sessions? 

RS: suggests reaching out to Kari

CK: I think that Erin was, in the past. But got busier so perhaps not anymore. Tracy Teal suggested making sure that subcommittees are communicating, to help keep everyone up-to-date.

JH: any more thoughts about how to encourage more pre-/post-workshop contributions?

CK: It might be worth reaching out to Erin, because she has a list of mentors from mentoring program. Could mail them/a shortlist from that group to request extra support.

JH: I've been on a few sessions where someone was brought in 

TH: Have enough experienced workshops and instructors, if they can contribute via pre- and post-workshop discussions, or just attend more often, the problem will solve it self. The challenge is finding a way to get this exising co-hort to contribute

JH: checkouts seem to be slowing down, after a lot of instructor training recently. Perhaps this problem won't be so pronounced after that influx has finished.

RS: we can encourage experienced instructors by reminding them about the sessions.

###### Second Meeting

CK: Have a dedicated person to see checkouts? Erin has a list of mentors. Could we email them to show up?

EB: Follow up question: Are all hosts experienced instructor? Or at least most of them? 

CK: Most are

EB: This problem will only become more pronouced as we have more and more people coming through checkout. Not sure what we're doing to continuing instructors/checkouts/.

MS: We currently don't formally encourage helpers to join in the instructor discussions

ML: We meet with upcoming instructors (all local workshops) before they start teaching workshops and can encourage them/reach out to them. Make it part of the interaction with setting up a workshops. Could be a good responsibility for the lead instructor. 

EB: This came up a few times recently. This is something we'd like to have 3-4 months from now.  How do you interact with people and not make them feel stupid 

TT: It would be great to keep track of everything that the mentoring committee does.  It would be ranked and also involve both a "high priorities" and "low-priorities" This could be part of the works cycle. - http://www.datacarpentry.org/blog/prometheus/

EB: It would be great if the other subcommittees join in on the work cycle 

TT: It's about capturing the ideas rather than "doing" them and then work together to get them done. 

#### Interesting topics from this month's discussions

- (How should we track these?)

- Creating resources for when internet/power goes out during a workshop?  Flash drives? Download docs before workshop? Blogpost?

###### First Meeting

RS: if the power goes out, there's not too much that you can do! Laptop battery can helpf or a short time, but the workshop will probably need to stop if the outage is for a more extended period. Most instructors can run most lessons without internet, using flash drives etc. It's manageable. Don't rely on online-only resources like google docs.

JS: I was on the discussion session when we talked about that. There is some value in adding info on what to do when you lose internet etc to the instructor training/checklists etc. Encourage instructors to think about it beforehand. +1

JH: good to think about it beforehand. I hadn't until I read this point today!

- Virtual environments?

###### First Meeting

CK: it's not necessarily so simple to use virtual machines

JH: avoid loss of time in setup and dealing with heterogeneous environments. In our setup, we're also able to push the instructors screen to all machines in our teaching environment. Allows provision of setup environment for people who can't bring their own laptop along

JS: Personally I think VMs may work better were a local community exist as they can support each others. If you are isolated, own computer better.

JH: +1 They definitely come in handy sometimes. We're fortunate enough at our institution to have a group of people who help us create these VMs in our "dedicated" workshop site and push updates to them - but I know that's not the case everywhere

### Mentorship committee onboarding doc

https://tinyurl.com/onboarding-mentoring

#### Are we the "mentoring" or "mentorship" committee?

###### First Meeting

CK: Believe officially mentoring - but sometimes confusing with different levels of those

JH: Making sure we're consistent with our language is important

#### Modify document to include “Mentoring mentors”

- Those who host discussions can help to mentor those who are first time notetakers or assistant/co-hosts for the discussion session.
  - Paula Andrea brought up a great point: How should this relationship be initiated?  Should the host e-mail the co-host or should it be the other way around?

###### First Meeting

JH: committee members encouraged to read through and make comments.

RS: Most of the time I only look at etherpad twice - first when I sign up and second just before the session starts. One time I did contact the co-host to see if they would like to act as host instead of co-host.

JH: Sometimes I'll go on e.g. the evening before, and see how the session is filling up. Would reach out to any co-hosts who I don't know, before the session. I think that experienced hosts could take a lead in reaching out to less experienced co-hosts to encourage escalating their involvement

CK: We send emails around to instructors. Maybe we can send around an email to people who're teaching each week, to remind them about the discussion sessions and also check if they have any questions etc before their session.
PAM: The sections on what is expected of host & co-host are a bit repetitive - perhaps we could restructure to include one list of stuff that is common for both and two separate ones of stuff that is only relevant to host or co-host. +1 Also, it would be helpful to send reminders to hosts and co-hosts.

JH: this is something that should start happening soon - emails to hosts/co-hosts.

JH: We have been discussing splitting the dicussion session coordination up between people on a 'seasonal' basis. I am working with Mateusz to do this for the rest of he summer. Looking for volunteers to take this on in future too.

JH: Continue reading over onboard doc & make comments - hopefully should have the onboarding document ready for use soon, maybe next meeting we can have a final version to approve for use.

JH: Closing note! Reach out to your colleagues/members of your local community and encourage them to join us on the discussion sessions!
