# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 2017-07-31

Time: 13:00 & 21:00 UTC

## Attending

- Jamie Hadwin (1st meeting)
- Toby Hodges (1st)
- Paula Andrea Martinez (1st)
- Marian Schmidt (2nd)
- Chris Hamm (2nd)
- Mark Laufersweiler (2nd)

## Apologies

- Belinda Weaver

## Actions/Resolutions

- TH to draft a blog post on the benefits of getting involved in discussion sessions, send to JH & MS
- JH to share checklist document for discussion session coordinator activities withh PA, then publicly when it's more polished

## Minutes

### Welcome

#### Introductions

### Recap from last meeting

#### Discussion sessions

- Still actively recruiting hosts/co-hosts each month - would like to see some new faces :)
- Instructors and helpers are encouraged to partcipate in discussions
- Juan has begun to do pre/post workshop "web meets" to get instructors/helpers in a video call mindset!

#### Task force

- Mentoring Committee Onboarding doc: https://tinyurl.com/onboarding-mentoring
- This document also includes an instructor discussion host and co-host expectations and checklist:
  - Modify document to include “Mentoring mentors” → those who host discussions can help to mentor those who are first time notetakers or assistant/co-hosts for the discussion session.

#### Trainer updates (Erin Becker): 

- New cohort of Trainers starting Training Program in July. Will be completing in September. 
- At least 2 open instructor training events in July. Both in Europe and Africa. Will be seeing new trainees from new locations going through discussions in the next few months.

#### Steering committee updates (Christina Koch): 

- New community lead is Belinda!  :D 
- Upcoming lesson release, new leaders of the CarpentryCon committee
- Great community call last week on getting involved w/ SWC/DC -- see notes here: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/community-call-2017-06-15

### Main Agenda Items

#### Discussion Sessions

##### How are the discussion sessions going? 

###### First Meeting

- JH: I will encourage the helpers and instructors on my next workshop to do a video call, and to join one of the discussion sessions
- TH: Haven't had the experience with video calls with workshops; have done in person
- TH: Wondering if being involved with more discussion meetings would help encourage participation (a shortcut version of the "10,000 hours" approach). Now have a target of attending/hosting one per month - will draft a blogpost about benefits of attending/hosting discussion sessions
- PA: you should encourage your team to do discussions too.
- JH: setting a target of 1 per month is a good idea. maybe we can encourage the mentoring committee to take on the same target? Then we can encourage other people to participate in sessions
- PA: if you cannot join, encourage someone else to join in your place
- JH: optional challenge: encourage another person to attend
- JH: we've changed the signup format - now slots 1-4 are for checkouts, 5-6 for debriefs. email host for permission to join if over-filled. put asterisk next to names of people who asked via email.

##### New Sign-Up Format

New discussion session sign-up format - 4 slots for checkouts, 2 slots for post-workshop/debriefs - email host if session is full

###### First Meeting

- JH - so far I've had about 4 people email me when a session has filled to ask if they can join and it's usually been fine! I like this because it helps some hosts have more control over the sessions (don't get too overwhelmed by too many people signing up) but mostly because I've gotten to talk with discussion participants before the session and have a little bit of a relationship established before the session - just a reminder to put email next to your name as host/co-host
- TH: Got an email request for someone who recently completed training and had been a little surprised how long to wait for a call - have a little mixed feelings about this - discussion sessions serve as a filter for those who are committed but also don't want people to be frustrated to find a call to sit in on
- JH: it's better to have the small sessions. I have no issue letting people join if they email to ask. Good to avoid new hosts becoming overwhelmed. Hopefully we can help with this problem by encouraging more people to be hosts/co-hosts
- TH: avoiding large sessions is definitely better
- PA: is it possible to have one session specifically for checkouts after an instructor training session. or is that discouraged because we want experienced instructors on the calls too?
- JH: that's something that I can ask about to discuss at next meeting. I know that discussions sessions are one of the things that they talk about during instructor training. could be something to get clarification on from training committee
- PA: is there a way to give people priority e.g. if they need to teach soon next month or if they've already waited a long time?
- JH: something to ask Erin. could reach out to those getting close to deadline
- TH: I think that this is the kind of circumstances that an email to a host would help with. I would definitely let someone extra onto a call if they really needed to get certified asap

###### Second Meeting

- Please remember to put your email on the etherpad when you sign up to help host instructor discussions

##### Discussion Session Survey

Short survey gauging why people do or don't come to discussion sessions; what would make them more likely to come (content, timing for example)

- [Review the survey here & give feedback](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eFIrCRPt7gHVSDi5Yd_4JPDDsLGowv2uG4jTBjf4vsI/edit)

###### First Meeting

- PA: I think the survey is good and targetting good points. what are you going to do with the results? Is there already a plan for what will be done after the survey? Most people who don't attend a session may also not be motivated to fill out the survey.
- JH: this is why we tried to design the survey to ask questions relevant to their level of engagement with the sessions. e.g. things that people do and don't like about sessions they've attended. Probably are people who aren't motivated to take the survey, but hopefully we can change that. Maybe even just to try it out once. Or maybe they're expecting something that we're not providing. Anyone who's really interested in this survey, maybe we can have other meetinsg outside of the regular mentoring meeting schedule.
- JH: maybe a taskforce idea? Mentoring committee with high-level overview, taskforce leaders with in-depth knowledge

###### Second Meeting

- ML: Local group of instructors - ML requires the instructors in OK to participate as a debrief (since they are foundation members and ML is in charge). Give your thorn (one thing that did not go well) and give your rose (something that worked well or was different that was useful) also changes that you would make.
  - Instead of wolfman and dracula, they use "countries" and each participant chooses a country and then they do pull requests on each country.
  - Definition of an upstream of original. and then a fetch so that they can get all of their classmates fixes. 
  - Thorns and roses: that's the key for the instructor discussions, and the maintaining of the lessons. 
  - No checkups - take their word for it. 
  - Getting feedback on your experience and vetting the material 
  - Participating in the instructor discusssions often gets people to do a github issue/pull request
- ML thinks that the survey will be helpful: 60% of people maybe not get involved.  Usually they don't know where or how.
- MS: thinks that in the absence of a local champion like mark that it would be helpful
- Sign up for the google calendar and if you have an open hour - go ahead and join! 
- Slack for learning about calendar and events. 
- How will the merger impact this?
- Put survey on:
  - Discuss list
  - twitter
  - slack
  - AMY email list? -->
  - Facebook?
  - Ask belinda!
- CH: Advertise more a good idea

### Mentoring Committee onboarding doc

https://tinyurl.com/onboarding-mentoring

Markdown file created (PR awaiting approval/merge) to be shared the following places:

- SWC/DC websites -  "Join Us" pages
- SWC/DC websites - Mentoring Committee pages
- SWC/DC websites - Instructor Checklist pages
- Github - Mentoring Committee ReadMe; Instructor Training ReadMe
- Where else can we share? Should we stick with markdown or also share through Google Doc format?
- Next steps: announce document on social media/Slack/blogs

###### First Meeting

- JH: if you can think of anywhere else to share this, please let us know
- PA: high five - great job
- JH: should happen pretty quickly from here. could be good to promote the doc in a blogpost also discussing advantages of attending discussion sessions
- TH: all of this we want to try to incorporate into our promotion of the discussion session
- JH: Markdown should make it easier to share in future

### Becoming more engaged with mentoring subcommittee

#### Would you like to volunteer for the mentoring committee?!

Jamie has temporarily taken over weekly emails to instructors before & after workshops to remind of discussion sessions through August

This volunteer position would start in August to be rotated quarterly (or 3X per year) - thoughts? _(Takes about 30 mins-hour per week)_

###### First Meeting

- JH: revised email template slightly, to make it easier to encourage instructors to attend discussion sessions
- JH: if you're looking for a way to get more involved, this is an easy way to do so - access AMY, sign in, pull records, then use email template. Looking into a way to make the AMY query easier (i.e. without login required). Checklist document for how to do it.
- PA: please can you send me the document so that I can check it out before I commit to anything?
- JH: will share privately while it's a WIP, then publicly once it's a little more polished

###### Second Meeting

- ML: Badges! $10 starbucks card or something (chair duty does not count!) . 
  - Puts more obligation on the committee to be accountable for participating in discussion sessions.
  - Credits for hosts/note-taker more credits rather than just participating. 

- Future questionnaire: form for hosts to fill out after a discussion session

### Closing ideas

#### Mentoring Committee Wishlist

- In the ideal world - what would the mentoring committee look like to you? Write your thoughts below...

- Juan: I think maby a commitee partly in "flux" working on mini projects. Doing reflecting planning cycles...  Secondly, there are normal standard agenda items that will be part of a status quo.
What my experience is thus far is that the mentoring commitee facilitates / assist new members to join and get involved with the community as they provide opportunity to become more involved in an organic way
- Tobin: as a well-advertised place that instructors can go to for help. I had a lot of local support, but i can see it being hard for trainers who don't have more experience geographically close.
- Jamie: MC is a place where instructors can turn to for feedback, help, and to share problems/issues they may be facing as an instructor - MC hears these issues and works together to create solutions i.e. through Juan's suggestion of "mini projects" like the onboarding doc
- Toby: a friendly group of people interested in making becoming/being an instructor easier and more enjoyable. It should be clear that this is a subcommittee that anyone can join, and meetings that people should feel free to drop in on, without any expectation that they will keep returning forever i.e. attendance does not equal/require "membership". (PS are we likely to change the name? It's a bit strange to me that we don't (actively) do much mentoring. This almost stopped me from coming to the meetings originally - I didn't/don't feel experienced enough to be mentoring others!)
