# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee

Date: February 20, 2017

* First meeting: 15:00 UTC
    * London: Monday, February 20, 2017 at 3:00 pm
    * São Paulo: Monday, February 20, 2017 at noon
    * New York: Monday, February 20, 2017 at 10:00am
    * Los Angeles: Monday, February 20, 2017 at 7:00am
* Second meeting: 21:00 UTC
    * Brisbane: Tuesday, February 21, 2017 at 7:00 am
    * London: Monday, February 20, 2017 at 9:00 pm
    * São Paulo: Monday, February 20, 2017 at 6:00 pm
    * New York: Monday, February 20, 2017 at 4:00 pm
    * Los Angeles: Monday, February 20, 2017 at 1:00 pm

Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/356620434

Privacy Notice: THIS ETHERPAD WILL BE ARCHIVED ON https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/ THAT IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.

## Meeting Procedures

* Meeting is led by the committee chair
* All participants are expected to abide by the Code of Conduct: https://software-carpentry.org/conduct/
* When not speaking, please mute your microphone
* In general, raise your hand to speak, either by: 
	* physically raising your hand on the video
	* putting /hand into the BlueJeans chat

## Sign In

Any Software/Data Carpentry community member is welcome to sit in and attend this meeting!  

Attending

* Christina Koch
* Rayna Harris
* Mark Laufersweiler 
* Toby Hodges
* Maneesha Sane
* Mateusz Kuzak
* Erin Becker (afternoon)
* Chris Hamm (afternoon)

Apologies

* Marian Schmidt 

## Agenda

Introductions

Recap from last meeting

Main agenda items
* Committee organization, membership, and leadership
	* Proposed structure in pull request: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/175
	* To discuss: 
	* Definition of membership
		* who is a member? anyone who shows up to the meeting? anyone who does specific tasks?
		* what are the unofficial rules for being a member? maybe with more strick rules they will feel more committeed
		* should we have some ideal minimums? attendence at calls and participation in activities
		* Make it more clear that anyone can show up, start participating
		* Helpful to know what their commitments are
		* "If you want to be a member, please commit to one of the following types of activities..."
	* Organizational roles and how we elect them
		* There are a lot of task that have been run why the chair, let's make them official roles!
	* Timeline
		* Confirm membership, take nominations this week
		* Candidate presentations following week
		* Voting the week after
		* Christina will finalize after the meeting
	* Voting logistics
		* Google Form? Election Buddy? Qualtrics?
		* Christina to follow up with Mark and Maneesha
	* Nominations for 2017 organizational roles
		* Chair
		* Vice-Chair
		* Secretary
		* Steering Committee Liaison
		* Discussion Session Coordinators
* New mailing lists (coming soon)
	* mentoring-subcommittee
	* discussion-hosts
	* The goal here is to contact people who only want to host but don't want to attend planning meetings and such - purely for logistical resasons
	* Maneesha will set these up today!
	* Is it less helpful to have a list of just hosts? 
* Activity Review (briefly)
	* Discussion Sessions
		* http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
		* Will need new hosts soon
		* Has anyone split a very large session?
		* Fun to observe them, and learn new things!  --> emphasize this when recruiting people
		* Need an "emergency" channel -- what are procedures if you can't make it
	* Mentoring Program
		* https://github.com/datacarpentry/mentoring-program/blob/master/program-outline.md
		* Groups in the middle of meeting for the first time
		* Subscriptions closed from now until March.  
		* 15 mentoring groups of 4-6 people; did a check-in last week
		* Following up with inactive mentees + replacing with other mentees
	* Regional Communities Sub-Committee
		* Proposal has been approved! 
		* First call in early March, hopefully. 
		* Focus: building local communities, either for new partners just starting out, or regional communities without a specific institution
		* Maneesha: common to get questions about connection with other instructors in the area --> need for someone to "take charge" and what to do
		* Is the goal to provide people with the authority to be these leaders?
		* Mark: 
		* How to reach out to people and get them involved, community-building (communities can then talk about logistics + mentoring)
		* Possibly pipeline into a mentoring group	
* Mission Statement Exercise (if time)
	* Current mission statement: 
		* The Mentoring Subcommittee was established in 2015 to develop and maintain a mentorship program to support instructors as they progress through training, teaching, curriculum development, and other community-related activities. We help promote community-building and networking by providing (virtual) spaces where instructors from all over the world can share teaching success stories and discuss strategies for overcoming challenges.
	* Alternative mission statements: 

Walk-ons: please add additional topics below

* Exchange experience being trainers (mentoring for trainers) -- not within the scope of this committee
* Suggestion: onboarding docs for different experiences, "I'm new, what do I do?"
	* I'm a new foundation member!
	* I'm a newly certified instructor!
	* I just attended a workshop!
* Reimbursements -- follow their criteria for getting $ back --> create a checklist for instructors going to a host institution, questions they need to ask







