# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 2017-06-19

Time: 13:00 UTC

## Attending

- Jamie Hadwin (1st meeting)
- Juan Steyn (1st)
- Marian Schmidt (2nd)
- Erin (first half of 2nd)
- Mateusz Kuzak (1st)
- Paula Andrea Martinez (1st)   
- Tobin Magle (1st)
- Mark Laufersweiler (2nd)

## Apologies

- Toby Hodges

## Actions/Resolutions

- 

## Minutes

### Welcome

#### Introductions

### Recap from last meeting

#### Discussion sessions

- Still actively recruiting hosts/co-hosts each month - would like to see some new faces :)
- Instructors and helpers are encouraged to partcipate in discussions

#### Task force

- Mentoring Committee Onboarding doc: https://tinyurl.com/onboarding-mentoring
  - This document also includes an instructor discussion host and co-host expectations and checklist:
  - Modify document to include “Mentoring mentors” → those who host discussions can help to mentor those who are first time notetakers or assistant/co-hosts for the discussion session.

#### Trainer updates (Erin Becker): 

- Once instructors become certified for either SWC or DC, they are eligible to teach SWC, DC or LC. If they'd like to receive two certifications for both SWC & DC, only need to do pull request/lesson contribution and demo for lesson from the second Carpentry. 

#### Steering committee updates (Christina Koch)

- Discussions continuing on a restructuring of Software/Data Carpentry into a more blended organization

### Updates from liaisons

#### Trainers (Erin Becker)

New cohort of Trainers starting Training Program in July. Will be completing in September. 
At least 2 open instructor training events in July. Both in Europe and Africa. Will be seeing new trainees from new locations going through discussions in the next few months.

###### First Meeting

- JS: Belinda will be in S. Africa for training conference and w/ MK there might try to get more people involved in training - could be a big group
- MK: Still looking into how to fund travel grants for people in other African countries to come to S. Africa - so far looking at 6 African countries (2 people each)

###### Second Meeting

- EB:  39 applications for 12 trainers seats (currently group of trainers are going through and picking applicants). Will go through training in July-August
- There should be 20-30 new trainers.
- 340 applications for instructors
  - 2 events in july (open instructor training) Europe and africa. ~15 people confirmed for each of those. 
  - Likely to be other instructor training events. 
- MS: How to cater to these participants in insturctor discussions?
  - EB: Not sure how motivated the participants will be to teach after they get trained. There will be people who will be the only instructors in their entire country.  It will be important for them to get plugged into the online community.
  - EB has been getting people to sign up for discussion during the last module of instructor training. EB will ask the leaders of these two training events to have participants to sign up 
  - ML: Regional/local mentoring group -> has been put on hold during the community development lead. Instead of "next-door" in terms of city - it would be "next-door" in terms of country. Hoping to kick off this fall the local/regional team building 
  - EB: Excited about Belinda, Christina and ML to work together on this. Currently, there were 13 (now ~10) active mentoring groups. 
  - Had people requesting to join the mentoring groups. EB will be talking with belinda about this.
  - ML: This was also expressed in the community call.  The groups were temporary.  Allows for the "refresh" of the community. Breaks down barriers of old-timers vs newbies. Probably in a good point to start doing these again. 
  - MS: What groups?
  - EB: This committee.  Then there's mentoring groups (2 mentors and 7 mentees (3 months in duration), ML's committee 
  - ML: It's more foundations/partner organizations. What to do locally on campus to maintain the idea of community? Can extend to regions. More of an onboarding for the foundations. 
  - MS: By foundations? Do you mean partners?
  - ML: Partnership has a particular legal meaning so we use foundations. 
  - EB: https://software-carpentry.org/scf/members/
  - MS: ML - will there be monthly meetings?
  - ML: It will be soon, mostly US-centric for the beginning. This is a pilot and we will see if the community wants to continue it. 

#### Steering Committee (Christina Koch)

New community lead is Belinda!  :D  And she starts soon, if not already.
Upcoming lesson release, new leaders of the CarpentryCon committee
Great community call last week on getting involved w/ SWC/DC -- see notes here: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/community-call-2017-06-15

###### First Meeting

- Community Lead -  Belinda started today June 19th!! https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/06/community-developement-lead.html
  - PA: Belinda stepping out of Mentoring Committee b/c of new role as Community Lead - no conflict of interest
  - MK: Also stepping away from Steering Committee, but it sounds like she will try to remain involved with Mentoring to help us out; can think of things we can work with her on
- MK: Commitment document from trainers at last Steering Committee - Belinda & MK will be designing similar doc for instructors; could get feedback from Mentoring on this
    - Commitment doc from Trainers: https://github.com/carpentries/policies/blob/master/trainer-agreement.md
- Community Call: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/community-call-2017-06-15
  - JS: Nice meeting to give a survey of ways people could get involved
  - JS: Jason & Kate talked about idea of future committee - one big thing per year per semester (CarpentryCon could be one) - other ideas included a grant, moving into new areas
- CarpentryCon
  - JH: Right now, developing the bid template for potential sites to meet the needs of the community - how many days, what types of sessions, where could/should it be
  - TM: Having a Con is a good idea - like how you can sign up to meet up at conferences right now and having a Carpentry focus would be great
  - MK: Community building - limit lectures/talks and more "unconference" than structured conference
  - MK: Last meeting formally made transition to new leadership - Fotis (new chair) wrote blog: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/06/carpentrycon-update.html
  - MK: Making suggested templates for the event - and community will decide where and what will be covered

###### Second Meeting

- CarpentryCon: 
  - ML: 2-3 days, couple of things for the community to comment on that are open for comments.
  - Committee will be meeting with the NumFocus group
  - MS: What's NumFocus?
  - ML: SWC primary funder (e.g. python workshops for pandas and scipy), carpentries goes through them for finances 
  - EB: 401C which the carpentries projects live (do legal and financial stuff) Prevent us from a lot of overhead business-y stuff.
  - https://www.numfocus.org/

### Discussion Sessions

#### We need some July & August discussion leaders! http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion

- PA volunteered to help on the onboarding doc - thanks!
- Should we cancel July 4th sessions?

###### First Meeting

- JS: I see 1st session on the 4th has two checkout signups, I will be able to assist
- JH: PA, please feel free to email me jamie.hadwin@okstate.edu if you would like to co-host a discussion session
- PA: will do thanks!
- Should we cancel 2nd July 4th session since no one has signed up yet? JH (or JS above) can help with 1st July 4th call - don't know if we'll have a volunteer host for the 2nd session - keep an eye on it or go ahead and cancel for that day before people sign up and then there may not be a host?

#### Update from last meeting: modified lead instructor checklist to engage other instructors/helpers in pre/post workshop discussions: https://software-carpentry.org/checklists/lead/
  - "Several Weeks Before" & "After" sections

###### First Meeting

- JS - Tried something new to get helpers & instructors part of community by holding a web-based debriefing of our own workshop and including them in the mail to Maneesha.
  - The idea is to build a culture that webmeets are "normal"- trying to do this more before & after workshops
  - Secondly also involve more participants to give feedback on a session in the mail to Maneesha, I think a lot of things happen behind the scenes, not in a bad way, but I'm trying this approach and will see where it leads.
- MK - do you mean having the lead instructor do this with other instructors/helpers
  - JS - yes, did this virtually
  - MK - usually do some preworkshop meeting - thinks post workshop like this would be useful - try to digitize sticky feedback and share with other instructors
  - MK - should we have a Google Drive document for this feedback?
  - PA - from workshops that she was involved - after workshop survey - is every workshop doing that?
  - JH - surveys are sometimes hit or miss in terms of response rate
  - MK - surveys and sticky notes are complementary but different - surveys more what they learned, sticky notes more specific about how the workshop went (more to discuss with other instructors)
  - MK - how many instructors actually look at post-workshop surveys?
  - PA - Comment, from what I've seen in the stickies is also more feedback to the instructors rather than the material, so how was the material was delivered. 

#### What to do when all instructor training checkout? Best approach(es) to encourage people to not fill a session with all the same without creating barriers?

###### First Meeting

- Please take a look at new July sign-up format - what are your thoughts?
  - MK - would be interested to hear why people do or don't come to discussion sessions; what would make it more likely for them to come (content/timing for example)
  - PA  - maybe just a tweet survey? +1  it's quick 
  - JH  - after today's meeting we can follow up to develop a short survey to send out

### Mentoring Committee onboarding doc

- https://tinyurl.com/onboarding-mentoring
- "Final" version should be ready by June 19 meeting
- Potential places to put the onboarding document: we should always refer to the document in the same way (e.g. same name of document if placed in multiple locations)

##### Potential places to put document:

__Software Carpentry Website__

1. https://software-carpentry.org/join/:  Could be #3 → Get involved with the mentoring committee!
2. https://software-carpentry.org/join/subcom_and_tf/ : Mentoring committee → have an actual link direct to how to be involved? 
  - https://software-carpentry.org/join/subcom/mentoring/
3. https://software-carpentry.org/checklists/lead/ - instructor/Helper Checklists pages

__Data Carpentry Website__

1. Could be a 3rd bullet point: http://www.datacarpentry.org/involved/
2. "Become an instructor" page: http://www.datacarpentry.org/involved-instructor/ 
  - How to be active outside of instructing at workshops section???
3. "Information for instructors": http://www.datacarpentry.org/for-instructors/ 
  - Add in 4th section about staying involved with discussion sessions
4. Instructor Training Checklist: http://www.datacarpentry.org/checkout/
  - Add in a blurb under the “Participate in Online Discussion Session” - encourage to continue participation

__Github - https://github.com/swcarpentry__

1. Instructor Training ReadMe - https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-training
  - Link to Discussion Session as part of Checkout - can include links to other checkout procedures, too - but on discussion session include blurb about remaining active after checkout discussion - onboarding
2. Mentoring Committee directory: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/master/subcommittees/mentoring
  - Include in ReadMe - “Onboarding Document”

###### First Meeting

- PA: on social media (Twitter), etherpad (this page) and Slack (important document)
- GitHub +1 
- Software Carpentry "join" page +1+1+1

###### Second Meeting

- ML: Makes sense to put it in the "getting involved" (for SWC), definitely in the FAQs in anything that we do. For DC - getting involved, might be a common denominator. If anything takes more than 2 clicks then it's too many clicks!
  - "Get involved"/"Join us"
  - Have a blog about it when it comes out
  - Put it into the discuss mailing list
  - We will always be onboarding people so there needs to be easy places for people to find information
  - Web based green/red sticky system about the organization would be great! 
  - MS agrees with ML!

### Becoming more engaged with mentoring subcommittee

#### Would you like to volunteer for the mentoring committee?!

- Sending out emails to instructors before & after workshops to remind of discussion sessions (once a week) - take over for MK/JH for the fall (August)
- This volunteer position would be rotated quarterly (or 3X per year) - thoughts?

###### First Meeting

- MK - one person in mentoring committee sends emails immediately after (but also in advance) - choosing date range and going to AMY and fetching emails for that date range
- MK - Christina started and since taking over, MK has automated to try to make it easier for the people who volunteer to do this to take over in the future (has a spreadsheet for email)
- JH - MK & I working on the documentation over the next month & a half - volunteer wouldn't have to take over until August
- PA: how do i get to know AMY, for future involvement?
- MK - could look at expanding the access to AMY where you can do a query to get the info you need without the full access+1+1 - this avoids having to set up access every few months
- JH - I will get with Maneesha about that today!

#### Future/next task force ideas

- __The issue:__ Currently, no one is analyzing the instructor discussion google doc (http://bit.ly/2sEyrmk) There's currently a comment from EB in onboarding doument here: http://bit.ly/2rltBXi
- __A Solution:__ Webform for discussion hosts/co-hosts - 
  - submit form with: (1) checkout names, (2) prompt about Top 3 takeaways from session, and(3) recommendation for people who might be likely to become more involved and why.
  - #3 would provide a list of people who we could reach out to to become involved in joining MC and hosting instructor discussions!
  - Who would the results of this form go to? EB (checkout@carpentries.org?)? MC co-chairs?
- Other task force ideas for mentoring activities? Blogs?

###### First Meeting

- JH - we don't want to add too many tasks that can become discouraging, but trying to think of ways to gain more meaningful data
- JS: The webform is a bit of extra admin but it can add a lot of value in making the data more friendly to analyse such as names, affiliations and contact details of participants.
- MK: Also we've discussed a form for subscribing to discussion sessions
- MK: EB may have been more focused on content; I am interested in who attends; how many people who do the checkout get certified; how many people come to the pre/post workshops

###### Second Meeting

- ML: makes sense to have notes available for instructor checkouts.  However, long term necessity is not as much.  Google form makes sense as there will be info that would be easier to analyze. Shelf life for the notes would be helpful. It's the action items that get the work done.
- MS: It would be great to have a self-reinforcing way to get people involved. 
- ML: If we target certain data - who will be using it? Data direct for who? Maneesha - Belinda - steering committee. 
  - As we build up the form, only get data that people want and have a direct way for people to get the data. 
- How to make it more enticing for future chairs, mentoring committee.  Less work get more done! People are fearful of the time constraints. 
- Scalability! Create documentation! 

### Closing ideas..... Mentoring Committee Wishlist

- In the ideal world - what would the mentoring committee look like to you? Write your thoughts below...

###### First Meeting

- JS: I think maybe a commitee partly in "flux" working on mini projects. Doing - reflecting - planning cycles...  Secondly, there are normal standard agenda items that will be part of a status quo.
  - What my experience is thus far is that the mentoring commitee facilitates / assists new members to join and get involved with the community as they provide opportunity to become more involved in an organic way
- TM: as a well-advertised place that instructors can go to for help. I had a lot of local support, but i can see it being hard for trainers who don't have more experience geographically close by.
- JH: Mentoring Committee is a place where instructors can come for feedback, help, and to share problems/issues they may be facing as an instructor - Committee hears these issues and works together to create solutions i.e. through JS's suggestion of "mini projects" like the onboarding doc
