# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 2017-04-24

Time: 13:00 UTC

How to connect: https://bluejeans.com/356620434

## Attending

- Marian Schmidt (2nd Meeting)
- Mateusz Kuzak (1st meeting)
- Jamie Hadwin (1st meeting)
- Chris Hamm (1st)
- Belinda Weaver (2nd meeting)
- Toby Hodges (1st)
- Juan Steyn (1st)
- Tobin Magle (1st)
- Christina Koch (2nd meeting)
- Jonah Duckles (2nd meeting)
- Raniere Silva (2nd meeting)
- Mark Laufersweiler (2nd meeting)

## Apologies

- Paula Martinez

## Actions/Resolutions

- Christina will add an item to the agenda of this weeks business meeting with instructor trainers: "How to communicate back to the trainers committee to show what we've seen in the instructor discussions?"
- All members: if you know anyone who might be willing to become a discussion session host, keep that in mind and ask them to come to mentoring subcommittee meeting/email Jamie/Marian/one of the other members of the leadership team

## Minutes

### Welcome 
- Welcome any new committee members and reminder of new leadership team 
  - Jamie & Marian have taken over as co-chairs of the mentoring subcommittee
  - Toby Hodges has taken over as secretary, taking notes and submitting these as a pull request to the mentoring subcommittee GitHub repo
  - Mateusz Kuzak has taken on a role as a discussion session coordinator

### Discussion Sessions

http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion

###### First Meeting

- A lot of the activity of the mentoring subcommittee over the last year has been focussed on organising and developing the discussion sessions ( http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion. Part of our future efforts will be encouraging people to continue to to get involved in these sessions as a host/co-host. and raise awareness to participate in sessions in general.
- Will need new hosts soon for May sessions
- Do you know anyone who may be interested n co-hosting/not-taking with a more experienced discussion leader?
  - In the last meeting, we discussed the idea of pairing experienced and novice hosts/co-hosts/notetakers

CH: about to lead my first session. Wants to avoid running through the same questions with everyone, to try to maintain organic flow of the sessions. What really helped me prepare was being a note-taker a few sessions becoming a host

TH: Note-taking and co-hosting a few time, talking and taking notes at the same time is very difficult. - Stick to taking notes, it can be difficult to play catch up. Toby has been working with Anelda and coordinating sessions that he can co-host with her (roles reversed - now she will be co-host/note taker - makes more comfortable to lead)

MK: If doing it for the first time, try to pick a session that isn't too busy - you will have to make sure that everyone has an opportunity to say something. For you as a host, the discssion is the interesting part, and the part that you are most likely to get something useful out of.

TM: regarding logistics of speaking and note-taking simultaneously, it's helpful to arraneg with your host/co-host to take over note-taking while you talk.

JH: If you have concerns that the sessions are growing too large, we can introduce measures to limit the group sizes. Does anyone have any suggestions for ways to limit size and maintain balance of groups for discussion sessions?

MK: perhaps enforcing an overall limit on size, and on the total number of checkouts? Important to maintain a balance, so that checkouts benefit from experienced instructors, and still get the opportunity to check out. We don't invite people to join discussions after they have finished instructor training. Perhaps we could increase certification rate by sending a reminder?

CH: +1 to limiting checkout numbers per session. The real benefit to people checking out comes from discussion with experienced instructors - need to maintain the balance between these to prevent dilution.

JH: I've been on calls only with people checking out. Actually asked an experienced instructor colleague to join the call to help to bring more experience in to answer the questions from the people checking out. Tried on one discussion session to put a note on the etherpad to limit the number of checkouts, but this didn't seem to have much effect. If you have any suggestions for other ways tht we can limit the numbers, please let us know.

JS: Perhaps include discussion session signup as part of the instructor training, to improve rate. +1 Could also ask for a host, co-host/notetaker, and a 'veteran', to ensure that there is always sufficient experience on the calls.

TM: need to think carefully about what the limits should be. Dont want to remove the incentive for people checking out. 

JH: There's also been some discussion about what a checking out instructor trainee can do , if the times/dates of the available discussion sessions are all inconvenient/inaccessible for them.

MK: to avoid the problem of not allowing people the opportunity to checkout, it would be really good to have some estimate of the number of people that we are expecting. Can we get those numbers? Having a  liason between this group and the instructors trainers would be very helpful for this. It's good to observe several different hosts before leading your own sessions - different hosts have different styles and it's good to see the different ways of doing things.

JH: Tracy Teal has suggested that she would be happy to act as a liason between the MSC and instructor trainers.

MK: Tracy is very busy and I'm sure that she would appreciate the help if there's someone else who wants to take on this role!

JH: +1

CH: Reaching out to trainees and encouraging them to join sessions is important to keep people flowing through the process

JS: +1 to the above. 30+ instructor trainees coming from South Africa soon - highlights the need for the liason to be in place soon

- Any experienced discussion leaders willing to serve as "mentors" to prospective discussion leaders?

JH: if you know anyone who might be willing to do this, keep that in mind and ask them to come to mentoring subcommittee meeting/email Jamie/Marian/one of the other members of the leadership team.

###### Second Meeting

- Will need new hosts soon for May sessions
Please sign up! 

- Know anyone who may be interested in co-hosting/note taking with a more experienced discussion leader?
  - Wondered whether note-taker is supposed to "talk" and help lead the discussion

BW:  Expectations for the note-taker?  Are they just there to take notes or should they also be participating?

RS:  It might be best to have guidance on this, time zones can be an issue, onboarding people as a cohost could be helpful

ML:  There could be a very large group of checkouts and having a second person there could be very helpful to lend their experiences to the group.  

BW:  How much input do the checking out people do?  What satisfies the "check out"?

CK:  Good concern to bring back to the trainers committee.  How to communicate back to the trainers committee to show what we've seen in the instructor discussions. There will be a business meeting this week.  **Pop this item on the agenda**

Summary: co-host is mostly taking notes, but could be called on to contribute

JD:  Understanding the type of contributions people give.  We don't really keep a record with instructor discussion engagements

CK:  We email the instructors but we don't check in with the hosts that week either. We don't always know if they're new.  How do we reach out to them?

BW:  Can it be a calendar invitation?  If it's in the calendar - it might be easier to track 

MS:  Create a document with expectations / checklist

BW:  Have it on the GitHub

- Any experienced discussion leaders willing to serve as "mentors" to prospective discussion leaders?

CK:  Can happen organically - could happen in this meeting (.e.g here's the expectations, could encourage each other to help guide new co-hosts)

BW:  Only if people want to be coached.  

CK:  Australia-specific discussion sessions?  Help to reach new part of world and also help create community in Australia.

BW: Lock people in who have expressed interest already 

### Task force ideas

#### Summer Meeting Times

- Do Mondays still work for the majority of the group?

###### First Meeting

The attendees all supported keeping the current schedule

TH: There is a risk of selection bias here - should perhaps ask everyone on mailing list for their preference? Put out request to members whether a different day and time is required.

Belinda Weaver has previously suggested hosting separate calls for the Australian community, and having a liason from those sessions to the 'main' ones

MK: The logical flow is to have people who are involved in the discussion sessions then joining the mentoring committee - can we find a way to contact the instructors in discussion sessions, and invite them to join. Then maybe ask them for their prefered schedule for calls when they register their interest.

JH: This is something we're going to be working on. Also looking into what works for the leadership team.

###### Second Meeting

Yes. :D --> Tuesdays for Australia

- Any suggestions for time of day?

AUS/NZ could be a 3rd mentorship committee meeting to accomodate all.  There will be a training in AUS soon and might have a critical mass of instructors/people to make this reasonable 

#### Task Force: Fact sheets

Onboarding documents - one suggestion was to start off with brief fact sheets. Start small, work up to bigger documentation. Could help transition between roles/groups.

- Where should we start?

###### First Meeting

- Mentoring Committee
- New Instructors - 5 things you should know? 5 ways to get involved?
- "five things you could do with a spare hour"

JH: what might be a good platform for working on this kind of a document?

JS: maybe this is something to discuss on a community call, then have members of mentoring subcommittee/taskforce to filter and pull together these comments

MK: I like the idea that everyone could contribute, but with some control from mentoring committee over what actually ends up in the document. We could use a Google doc or something else that's more accessible/easier to contribute to than the GitHub interface. +1

JH: accessibility is important. was thinking about starting witha  gdoc then transitioning to GitHub. Also important to have subcommittee/taskforce members finalise the content after a community call. Perhaps gdoc -> community call -> github -> subcommittee

JS: Maybe the "subcommittee" must create a skeleton to fill out by a wider community.
  - Something to discuss more at the next meeting

- Any other ideas for taskforces?

MK: coordination of discussion sessions. Do we want to share it? Put it on rotation? I'm trying to make the transition as easy as possible, with documentation of pre-/post-workshop emails, details for discussion sessions etc. Pull request coming soon. After it's there, it would be interesting to discuss this further.

JH: Marian and I are definitely interested in discussing this more. Trying to see what works for people who have already volnteered - don't want to make people uncomfortable or put them under pressure to take on more than they can handle. Make transitions as easy as possible.

MK: need to find a way to make it as efficient as possible for people - make it easy for it to be a short-term commitment

JH: this is the main motiviation for having onboarding documents/fact sheets. Also good for making sure that we document where we want to go with our activities too.

###### Second Meeting

JD:  Everyone who signs up for the monthly mailing list tells us their interests.  These docs could be sent to these people. We have these mailing list segments that could be useful to invite more participation: http://software-carpentry.us14.list-manage.com/subscribe?u=46d7513c798c6bd41e5f58f4a&id=50c3e6d6fe (contact jduckles@software-carpentry.org and I can help get any of these factsheets broadcast to appropriate segments)

MS:   gdoc -> community call -> github -> subcommittee

BW:  People really like tips when they're teaching a particular things.  R/Shell/Git - tips!

CK:  There are in theory lesson notes.  Might be good to run them by the maintainers of the lesson.  What might be the best approach?
Have a catch-all google doc with a small group of people who picks the highlights and puts them somewhere. 

JD:  It should live in the lesson.  Lesson specific discussion sessions.  or "Talk to a maintainer" . or "experienced instructor of X" or "meet the developer" 
  - Belinda could help host the discussion on Git.  She'd be willing to participate in this. Maybe some people who know the shell backwards 

ML:  Have ways for people to contribute/support ideas and that way people can mention difficulties.  Could help "rank" idea/issues 

BW:  Then we would get a good idea of what really works or what is very challenging

JD:  How are the discussion ideas feeding back to the maintainers.  It would be good to develop a continuous maintainer loop.  How to capture this information by the community?

BW:  Instructor guide could be led by instructor discussions instead of maintainers?  A 3rd person who maintains the guides could help ensure that they get improved?  

MS:  Do lesson maintainers meet?

JD:  Lesson maintainers used to meet.

CK:  When I was a lesson maintainer it would be good to check in with others to discuss lesson maintenance 

RS:  They do not meet frequently (timezones and difficult to get everyone together).  There's 8 lessons with 2 maintainers each.  It's almost impossible to get everyone together.  They try to invite people to help make big decisions.  Had a meeting 2 months ago to dicuss minor issues about the lesson template.  

ML:  Is that also an artifact of folks (instructors) not understanding the issue portion of git hub  as a means of communicating with the mantainer as well?

RS:  Could be a github issue 

JD:  A culture of pointing out problems (even if you don't fix them) is okay.
 
- Key points:  New instructor guide and host discussions for specific lessons

BW: Tracy has a new instructor guide.  It's in GitHub:  
https://github.com/tracykteal/instructors-introduction. Could be helpful to have this link on the etherpad for the instructor discussion - "Handy links for first timers"

- Mentoring Committee

BW:  A document like this would be helpful. I was asked. Raniere asked saying it would be great to have someone from AUS.  Good to invite people and encourage 

MS:  Marian and Jamie can create a rough draft of this document that can then be edited by the mentorship committee. 

JD: 3 ways to encourage 

Mark and Toby both saw it on the community calendar and joined in on the committee.  When they joined they felt welcome to the committee and "check out the chaos" an they might have a skill that will greatly benefit the committee.  

- New Instructors 
  - 5 things you should know? 5 ways to get involved?

- Other ideas?  
  - Hosting English as a second language (ESL) discussion sessions to engage a different group to attend. 

- Maybe have some hosted in other languages?

BW:  There's some spanish speakers in Australia who might be able to.  There's also others in the Middle East. Maybe have a document 

JD: Translate guiding documents to that particular language

BW:  This is a long term project

RS: Some people have started translation into spanish.  They organized a few hackathons but they didn't finish the lessons.  Sometimes people want to have it in english (could be on their CVs)

JD:  How to maintain the translated lessons?

CK:  Aside from the lessons - we could host discussion sessions that are targeted to specific languages.  Support belinda in searching for hosts.  How often?

RS: Maybe some of these lists would be very small

JD:  What about general diversity?  Looking for field specific (e.g. biology/physics) and/or languaged --> could allow people to connect in a more organic way.  (Peer connections) . As the community grows it will catalyze these ideas

RS: We're still a small community

JD:  People within the different communities don't always have a connection and this speaks to having a need for a connection

RS:  Will the new hire work on this? 

JD:  Potentially

