# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 2017-03-27

Time: 14:00 UTC

How to connect: https://bluejeans.com/356620434

## Attending

- Erin Becker (second)
- Jamie Hadwin (both)
- Rayna Harris (first)
- Toby Hodges (both)
- Christina Koch (both)
- Mark Laufsweiler (second)
- Sue McClatchy (first)
- Marian Schmidt (second)
- Juan Steyn (first)
- Belinda Weaver (second)

## Apologies

- Mateusz Kuzak

## Actions/Resolutions

- Marian will check with Mateusz to make sure that he's okay with being emailed about whether or not debriefers can make meeting times.
- Christina & Erin to sort out access to Data Carpentry shred documents folder for Jamie and Marian.
- Christina will coordinate the document sharing with Erin. And then Christina will create a blank document that people can add to. 

## Minutes

### Welcome new committee members and leaders!  

- Jamie Hadwin - new co-chair (along with Marian Schmidt from Univ. of Michigan), from Oklahoma State University, was looking for a way to become more involved with SWC and Christina approached to see if I'd co-chair for the near future
- Rayna Harris - been involved with SWC since 2015
- Toby Hodges - bioinformatician/community coordinator in Germany; involved with SWC for a few years; subcommittee secretary
- Juan Steyn - first went to SWC workshop in S. Africa 2015; certified last year - busy teaching second workshop - an additional 3 upcomming this year.
- Sue McClatchy - bioinformatician; involved with mentoring committee since it started; does instructor training

###### Second Meeting

- Marian Schmidt - joined committee about a year ago. Spotty attendance to begin with. Now committed to acting as a co-chair for the subcommittee, along with Jamie
- (CK: Mateusz Kuzak has also been recruited to coordinate discussion hosts. Anyone else interested in organising discussion session logistics would be very welcome.)

### Activity Review

#### Discussion Sessions

http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion

##### Will need new hosts soon

###### First Meeting

JH: only hosted one session to far, what are other peoples thought son how this is going?

SM: it's important to reruit more hosts, so that current set can avoid burnout. Rather than only sending a general email to mentoring committee, should try to actively recruit new hosts. e.g. If someone comes to debrief/brief, ask them on the call to host a session. We can point out that materials are available online to guide them through the process. Also should try to contact people after discussion sessions to ask them - in general target specific people.

RH: Two points: 1. would like to encourage new committee members to contribute - critique what the committe has been doing. We have tried a lot of stuff out - don't be afraid to suggest new ideas. 2. One problem with current discussion host signup is the note on line 24 of etherpad (only two trainee checkouts per session) that is being ignored by trainees. Perhaps we should add 'checkout' slots to the etherpad, to try to enforce the limit on discussion sessions?

JH: Used a recent call to ease a colleague into becoming a host. Has observed that size of discussion session groups is becoming a problem.

TH: Started out as a silent observer of discussion sessions. Then acted as note-taker, and host since offered to swap roles next time, so that I could host for first time knowing that an experienced host is there on the call. This "safety net" would boost confidence.

JH: Christina and I have discussed this recently too - "mentoring mentors". Something to discuss more in the second meeting today.

RH: Agreed - I went through the same progression.

JS: A checklist would be helpful to give new hosts guidance on session structure. When I went to the websites, I found it unclear whether I could take part in the discussion sessions.

RH: Would be good to identify more active instructors in the community and actively recruit/encourage them to become more involved.

###### Second Meeting

EB:  Finding new hosts - she sent out a call to the new mentorship program - does christina know if there's been some involvement from these individuals?

CK: Tried to follow up with names that I didn't recognise. It might be a good idea to follow-up more with that group. But maybe this should wait until we have the onboarding documents ready?

MS: Is there a way that we can track this cohort?

BW: Is there a list somewhere of the hosts, and how often they do it? Bluejeans doesn't work well in the S hemisphere. Will start using another tool instead for my sessions.

CK: we created a new mailing list. Goal is for the ,list to be people who are willing to host once-a-month. Is this a good idea? Should we go for the 'spreadsheet approach'?

EB: I think that, in general, across Carpentries, we have a good problem. Lots of people want to get involved, but maybe these people discover that they don't have enough time. Should try to make clear to people that it's ok not to volunteer for stuff, but to encourage them to be commited to the requirements if they do volunteer.

BW: Better to get people to under-promise and over-deliver. Don't want people to over-commit and burn out.

EB: I don't know how well we're doing as a community at making events accessible to people in other regions e.g. Australia, Africa. Are we shutting out large sections of the community by the way that we're doing things?

CK: enough people in Australia that they could take control of running their own discussion sessions. Understand that the cureent times are really inconvenient.

BW: the reason that I started to do things locally, was because I recognised that times were inconvenient for people. Happy to help get people involved in doing things in local community. For a lot of people, better to do things in the evening.

CK: a good thing for you (Belinda) to discuss with the local community group.

MS: Do you know how many are on the mailing list?

CK: no. Starting to think that having noth mailing list and spreadsheet would be good.

BW: Would be great to get a calendar invitation for discussion sessions etc. email invitations automatically adjust to your timezone, which would be really helpful.

TH: Related to finding new hosts in general --> "mentoring mentors". Toby hosted a few sessions with Anelda as a note taker and after a few, Anelda offered to switch roles so toby can host with more confidence. Good way to encourage nervous new hosts

##### Has anyone split a very large session?

###### First Meeting

JH: Has anyone been on a large call? Has anyone got experience of splitting a session?

SM: I have been on calls with large groups signed-up (up to 10 or 11), but there are often 2 or 3 no-shows. I encourage experienced instructors to go first, and trainees to ask these people questions. In my experience, it's not difficult to get trainees to ask questions. You do have to mind the clock & keep things moving quickly. Can give time limits to the experienced instructors on the call. Active facilitation - don't be shy. Trainees usually don't need as much time. Vital to make sure that everyone gets represented.

RH: The biggest session that I've hosted had 12 people, but a lot of people were representing from the same workshops. In this case, one person tends to take the lead, with colleagues adding additional details. It's not so bad with a group like that. I always like to try to get the trainees asking questions throughout - ask if anyone has questions after each point. This avoids build-up at the end.

###### Second Meeting

ML: Sessions are filling up really fast with checking out trainees. Maybe experienced instructors can target the sessions with fewer other experienced members signed up, to take the pressure off the host

JH: Maybe we can keep an eye on how sessions are filling up and send out suggestions to checking out trainees about which sessions to join

BW: Hard to get through so many checkouts. Definitely a good idea to limit the numbers.

MS: I think we talked about limiting numbers in the past.

EB: On etherpad for teaching demos, we use numbered spots. This seems to work, but I get quite a lot of emails from people saying that they're full. Need to make sure that we get people through, but also keep it manageable.

CK: people do add to numbered lists on discussion sessions.

BW: If teaching demo numbers get too big, I'm happy to organise an extra session

CK: Maybe we should be more forceful on the etherpad? Could number five trainee slots and three (de)brief slots?

BW: Or a section for a 'waiting list' of people who can't find a slot

EB: We used to ask people to give their name and suggested times. Logistical nightmare. Better now to collect based on previously-defined names. Danger of people not putting their name on a timeslot if it doesn't fit them perfectly.

MS: a note in the etherpad to email discussion session coordinator/instructor if you can't get a slot that you need

__Marian will check with Mateusz to make sure that he's okay with being emailed about whether or not debriefers can make meeting times.__

### Task force ideas: 

###### First Meeting

CK: main activities of sub-committee so far have been around discussion sessions, but would like to start looking at other ways that we can encourage mentoring/community. Onboarding documents was one suggestion for this:

Onboarding docs for different experiences, "I'm new, what do I do?"  

- I'm a new mentoring committee member!
- I'm a new foundation member!
- I'm a newly certified instructor!
- I just attended a workshop!

Other ideas?  

JH: It's worth considering the suggestions (above) regarding recruiting discussion hosts. It would be good to have ways of determining how different people can get involved at different levels. How do we make sure that members are up-to-date with changes to systems? By email? Slack? Monthly meetings of various committee chairs?

CK: Is anyone in the call on the Slack? (members were about 50/50) What is the best way for you to be updated on changes?

JH: Slack is a good way. often get overwhelmed with emails.
Slack channel address is https://swcarpentry.slack.com/

JH: For those not on Slack, what are other options?

JS: Could try out different approaches? Use a mix of channels - the effectiveness of different channels of communication tends to differ from week to week e.g. email traffic frequency changes over time.

CK: If we created a mentoring committee Twitter for meeting times and hosts, would people follow that?

RH: I like that because it's fast and having a independent account would save having to include SWC & DC central accounts.

JH: I think that it would benefit from having all committee chairs able to communicate together e.g. the Slack. Maybe something to discuss further? Could be good to discuss onboarding documents across committees and carpentries. These could make getting more involved less intimidating.

TH: Like the idea of onboarding documents. Definitive document could be helpful, having centralized information.

JH: having similar experience with another project now, trying to devise documents and way to explain project to others while recruiting additional help.

###### Second Meeting

CK: some of the onboarding docs fall outside of the scope of this subcommittee, but a good example for us is the "I'm a new subcommittee member" guide. How do you think that we should go about developing/discussing these?

JH: I think it would be fine to have a taskforce within the subcommittee - avoid leaving it to one person. Perhaps we could start witha  short "fact sheet" then, once we're happy with this, can start on something more detailed. I recently couldn't find information needed for a presentation I was giving on carpentries in local community. Would be good to be able to access some of this more easily.

BW: created a document last year, which must be lurking around somewhere. Can write quickly, so happy to quickly write up ideas that everyone contributes - Google doc or markdown etc

CK: making a short one-page document would be appropriate for this subcommittee

JH: I like a short fact sheet maybe with pertinent onboarding information for people wanting to be involved with this subcommittee. To give them an idea of what they're getting themselves into

ML: +1

CK: an etherpad?

BW: an etherpad would need to be findable

MS: we could have it at the bottom of the mentoring subcommittee etherpad (this one), then move it when it's done.

ML: my problem with google docs is how people share documents - lots of individual documents shared - would rather have a single folder with all of them in. Data management of folders would be a good diea to keep things organised.

EB: There is a mentorship folder in the DC docs. Can use that.

CK: if we have something ready in time.

EB: right now, bug barbecue is for ecology lesson only.
Christina will coordinate the document sharing with Erin. And then Christina will create a blank document that people can add to. 

#### Mission Statement Exercise - to help address expectations for new & current members

It may be time to revamp the statement? Do any new members have suggestions for this?

__Current mission statement:__
 
> The Mentoring Subcommittee was established in 2015 to develop and maintain a mentorship program to support instructors as they progress through training, teaching, curriculum development, and other community-related activities. We help promote community-building and networking by providing (virtual) spaces where instructors from all over the world can share teaching success stories and discuss strategies for overcoming challenges.

RH: I think this is a good start. I wouldn't mind a slightly shorter one. Maybe a very short statement paired with a longer, more detailed description?

JH: The second part seems to really focus on the instructor discussion sessions

##### Shortened mission suggestions

TH: The Mentoring Subcommittee was established to develop and maintain the framework of support for instructors in all their activities across the Carpentries. 

CK: The mentoring committee facilitates community activities and actions that enable Software/Data Carpentry community members to grow in their skills as instructors, curriculum developers and community leaders. 
 
SM: The Mentoring Subcommittee supports professional development of instructors as they progress through training, teaching, curriculum development, and other community-related activities. We help build an international community through (virtual) spaces where instructors can share teaching successes and discuss strategies for overcoming challenges.

JS: The Mentoring Subcommittee develops and maintains the mentorship program by:

- Supporting instructors as they progress through training, teaching, curriculum development, and other community-related activities. 
- Promoting remote community-building and networking by providing (virtual) spaces for sharing teaching success stories and discuss strategies for overcoming challenges.

#### Checklist for dealing with reimbursements
Checklist for dealing with reimbursements -- already written, maybe can be reviewed by mentoring committee + SWC/DC staff?  
CK: anyone interested in discussing this, get in touch

#### Confirmation on new Data Carpentry certification process for existing SWC instructors

Suggestion for next time: hosting English as a second language (ESL)  discussion sessions to engouge a different group to attend. Maybe have some hosted in other languages
