# Agenda for Lesson Infrastructure Subcommittee Meeting

Date: February 8, 2017 at 5pm UTC+0.

Chair: Raniere Silva

Connection details: Join https://bluejeans.com/220865955/.

Procedures:

1. We will go over the agenda items until our time is over.

2. Attendees should click on the item title
   to view the full discussion on GitHub.

3. Motions and counter-motions will be add
   as comments on GitHub.

4. The chair will invite attendees to vote
   on motions and counter-motions.
   Attendees should use [GitHub Ractions](https://github.com/blog/2119-add-reactions-to-pull-requests-issues-and-comments)
   to vote.

   Majority of "+1" means that the motion passes,
   "-1" that the motion was rejected, and
   "Confused" that the motion was tabled for next meeting.
 
5. After the meeting,
   GitHub comments will be collected to compose the minutes.

Present:

* Naupaka
* Raniere
* Rémi
* Tracy
* Trevor

# What are these meetings for?

Tracy: we should talk things over and set directions instead of voting in motions

Raniere: I understand your point, but a lot of the time we have a PR floating the idea
At some point we have a good proof of concept, and then folks are afraid to go ahead and do it.
The idea I was talking with Kate about is that we need to confirm consensus which have formed in other channels.
Having a formal meeting gives you a way to confirm consensus.

Tracy: I agree we should make decisions, but I don't think we can show up with an up/down vote.
It's out job to integrate all that information and come to a consensus.

Trevor: I don't think that we have time to discuss things in detail during face-to-face meetings.
If an issue needs more discussion, we can always punt back to the issue/PR with “we have concerns about …”.

Naupaka: I think these meetings are for pan-carpentry, pan-lesson issues that are too big for one maintainer to approve.
The challenge is sorting out which issues are important/complicated/meaty enough to be worth discussion time.
Travis CI is a big change and might be finicky (e.g. for R).
We should be discussing things like that in this committee.
But instructions for how to open a terminal seems like a single-person decision.
I have no problem with “sure, that's great.  Merge”.
These are all infrastructure things because they're in an infra repo, but that doesn't mean they're all contentious issues.

Trevor: Other projects (e.g. in the OCI) have maintainer sets who vote on each PR.
That's a good way to asynchronously show consensus.
You can always hold a contentious issue if it needs more than the usual quorum, but in my experience that doesn't always happen.

Rémi: Some decisions get stuck, and you need a multi-person decision to break out of those ruts.
Kate proposed a few people to make those decisions, and then that became a subcommittee.
Tracy was wondering how this would formalize itself with issues and votes.

Raniere:
Naupaka mentioned big and small fish.
When we were designing this subcommittee, we talked about typo fixes.
For medium fish, if someone sends a PR, I could mail people with “this PR looks good to me, I'll merge in two weeks if people don't have problems”.
For big fish, things that could disturb the workflow of existing contributors (e.g. swcarpentry/styles#131).
Because of time constraints, we didn't want weekly or bi-weekly meetings.
I was going to try and bring big issues to meetings to the whole community could weigh in.
But some parties aren't subscribed to the appropriate GitHub repos, and don't get the notifications.

Rémi: I've disabled notifications because the volume was too high.
After some discussion on big fish, there is no comment on the swcarpentry/styles#131; maybe our fault, but I don't think we have anything to discuss on it now.
I would focus on things that have settled.

Tracy: I like Trevor's idea for a process for the repos.
Where we list maintainers for a repository, a PR comes in, a maintainer comments on it with pros and cons (how would it affect existing workflows).
Maybe maintainers do some local testing to back up their initial feedback.
If we can get to consensus, then great, it's done.
If someone files a complicated PR or an interesting issue, we might devote a whole meeting to discussing the issue, how we would pilot something like that, etc.
I might be biased, because I'm a fan of creating processes that let things move forward on their own or asynchronously.
Then the big fish can come into meetings to get more feedback, etc.

Naupaka: More of a practical question, is there a way to pull GitHub reactions pragmatically?
It would be nice to have a way to bubble up things that almost had consensus.

Raniere: The API lets you script reactions.
But at the moment, the API is unstable (https://developer.github.com/v3/issues/comments/#reactions-summary-2)

Trevor: Here's an example of this process being automated in the OCI: https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/pull/672.
PullApprove is closed source, but it shows that this is automatable if we want.
So I don't think we should let technical issues stand in the way; we can solve technical issues in this regard.

Tracy: I have some issues with the current template (e.g. hand-written Python which is never tested).
I'd like to talk about maybe having new templates in six months.
But getting back to Raniere's list, is there anything in the list that we should resolve on this call?

# Visually separate inline code blocks

Raniere: https://github.com/swcarpentry/styles/pull/117

Trevor: I have no opinions on CSS.
Folks can do whatever they want.
Does anyone have problems with this?  Let's just merge it.
(I don't have permissions)
Raniere, can you merge it?

Raniere: Doing it now.

# Updading lessons as styles changes

Raniere: I'm thinking of automating pushing styles updates to lessons.

Trevor: I'd rather cut styles releases with release notes.
Having a collection of “the last $N weeks' PRs” is hard for lesson-maintainers to review.

# Add link to template for Google Calendar event

Raniere: https://github.com/swcarpentry/workshop-template/pull/366

Trevor: My only concern is that this approach may be Google-Calendar-specific.

Raniere: Yeah, but lots of people use Google Calendar, and we can go the icalendar way later if we have time.

Tracy: I agree that Google Calendar is good for now, and we can look at icalendar later if we want.

# Finding the data for the lesson

Raniere: https://github.com/swcarpentry/lesson-example/issues/47
Some things are in different places for different lessons.

Tracy: I created this issue, so…
But I hear this feedback from a number of people, but it's useful information.

Trevor: The setup.md stuff is recent, no?  Like last summer?  Spring?
I expect inconsistency is lesson-maintainers not following up after the approach was voted in.
I don't really care what we call it, but I'm not wild about re-building consensus around something new so quickly.

Tracy: I'm not saying “rehash setup.md”, I'm saying “add a link from the prereq section” for folks who don't see it in the title bar.

Trevor: Ah, that sounds like a great idea.

Tracy: And mention that the setup.md also covers data which needs to be downloaded.

Trevor: That sounds good too.
